AITA for spending my son's university fund on a trip to Europe to drink beer like I always threatened instead of giving it to his step brother after he passed away.
My son was smart. Smarter than me. I almost requested a paternity test because he was so damn intelligent. THAT IS A JOKE. 

My ex and I divorced when he was about 12. She remarried when he was 14. I did when he was 16. 

I had an RESP set up for him. That's a education fund in Canada. As long as he went for post secondary education he could use the money for anything. 

I always told him that I was okay with him not going to university. That way I could use the money I had saved up for him to go to Belgium and buy some beer from monks that only allow you to buy one case.

He knew I was joking and he always played along. He wouldn't let me get his goat. 

When he got accepted to McGill it was the proudest moment of my life. I took him out for a beer to celebrate his achievement and mourn the loss of my trip to Europe. 

My son was struck and killed by a drunk driver in March. I'm dealing with it. My ex is dealing with it. My wife has been nothing but my rock in this. She is holding me up. 

I was dealing with the funeral arrangements and everything when my ex came to talk to me about his money. She knew he had a scholarship and was just going to use the money for living expenses and an emergency fund. She asked me what I was going to do with it. 

I said I was going to do what I always said I would. I was going to Europe to drink beer. She asked if she could have it for her step son. I thought about it and said no. Her husband is a decent enough person but he made it clear that he wasn't responsible for any expenses for my son. Beyond food and shelter and stuff obviously. Like I said he is decent. 

I said I was not going to do that. I was going to go drink beer in my son's honour. 

She says I'm wasting thousands of dollars. And I guess I am. I have to give back the government portion of the fund. But I don't care. 

My ex thinks I'm being stupid and irresponsible wasting my son's money like this. 

I don't care. 

My son would laugh his ass off if he knew I actually did it.
Welcome to /r/AmITheAsshole. Please view our [voting guide here](https://www.reddit.com/r/AmItheAsshole/wiki/faq#wiki_what.2019s_with_these_acronyms.3F_what_do_they_mean.3F), and remember to use **only one** judgement in your comment.

OP has offered the following explanation for why they think they might be the asshole:

 > My son died and I am using his education fund to go to Europe and drink beer like I always told him I was going to do. I might be the asshole for not giving his step brother the money.

Help keep the sub engaging!

#Don’t downvote assholes!

Do upvote interesting posts!

 [Click Here For Our Rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/AmItheAsshole/about/rules) and [Click Here For Our FAQ](https://www.reddit.com/r/AmItheAsshole/wiki/faq)

##Subreddit Announcements

Follow the link above to learn more

---

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose/?to=/r/AmItheAsshole) if you have any questions or concerns.*

*Contest mode is 1.5 hours long on this post.*
Hey OP, you're NTA and I'm very sorry for your loss.

I have some good news though; RESP's can only be transferred between siblings. Assuming that your son was not adopted by your ex's new husband that means your son was not related to your ex's step son in a way that would permit the transfer.

[https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/tax/registered-plans-administrators/registered-education-savings-plans-resps/registered-education-savings-plans-resps.html](https://www.canada.ca/en/revenue-agency/services/tax/registered-plans-administrators/registered-education-savings-plans-resps/registered-education-savings-plans-resps.html)
NTA. And sorry for your loss.

If/when you come to Belgium give me a shout - I personally don't care much for the beer you are referencing, but there is a plethora of it and I still own some shares in a nice small farm brewery to invite you for additional beers.
NTA. Sorry for your loss. I thought it was a clickbait title but this is a sad fucking post. I hope you enjoy your trip and pour out some for your homie. It sounds like you guys had a good relationship.  
NTA. You're not wasting your money; you are celebrating your son's life and mourning your loss at the same time.

I'm sorry for your loss and I hope the trip is healing for you. Raise a glass to your son for all the internet strangers who are thinking of you.
From someone who lost her 15 yr old sister to a car accident this really tore me up way more than I thought it would. She was killed a month after her 15th birthday & had just been accepted to a private high school with a full ride scholarship she had been trying for. The acceptance letter sat on her vanity in her room for years after. 

You are NTA if anything far from it…. the ex wife even asking is a huge one. 

Please go to Europe & celebrate his life! It’s the only thing that should be done with that money. 

If you have a Venmo/cashapp etc I would love to also buy you a beer. 

I’m truly sorry for your loss.
My condolences. 


Your ex can ask for the money but she shouldn't expect you to say yes. NTA 


Westvleeren gold cap is particularly worth travelling for.
NTA and have fun going to Belgium and picking up your case of Westvleteren
NTA but Jesus Christ, I am so sorry. 

Can you tell us more about your son? Share your favorite story about him, what he wanted to do for a job, your favorite activity together.
NTA.  I'm sooooo sorry for your loss.  You have no obligation to support your ex-wife's new husband's child, it's appalling they even asked.

You do what YOU think is best and what would give your son joy.  Sounds like you already figured out exactly what that is.

Enjoy your trip and toast many a beer to your amazing son.
NTA  
Your ex has no right to call you stupid because you are following through with a joke in memory of your son like would  she do that if she was in your situation? My guess is probably not. I'm so sorry for your loss. I hope you're ok




>She says I'm wasting thousands of dollars


maybe you are. but crucially, it's *your* money to waste. your ex wife's step child is not anything to you. the audacity to even ask you to spend your money on him is beyond ridiculous. NTA. my condolences for your loss. its always the good people who end up killed by asshole drunk drivers.
Usually, I am all for being as kind to children and young people as possible.  But this isn't even your stepson! You have no connection to the boy, and no child of yours has a connection to the boy. Your ex is asking too much! NTA!
Tell your ex that she is free to give her step son any money she saved for your mutual son to go to college. What? She didn't save any? How is that your problem? 

NTA


Honor the memory of your son by doing what you told him you'd do. Sorry for your loss...
Alright, two things to say.

1. I'm SO SORRY for the loss of your son. That HAS to be hard for you.
2. NTA. You do what you think your son would enjoy. If you think that going to Europe and having a beer would make him happy, then by golly, go ahead and do it. I hope you do well for yourself.
Of course you’re NTA. 

I’m sorry for your devastating loss. Please post an update when you get there so I can raise a glass with you. <3
NTA tonight I'm gonna pour a drink to honor your son's memory, I'm so sorry for your loss.
NTA

Where does your EX wife get off asking you for money!?
Enjoy your trip! It is none of anybody else’s business what you do with money you had set aside. NTA - I hope great memories of your son and his sense of humor helps you with your grief. I am not sure I get why your ex-wife thinks you should fund education for someone else’s kid. It was pretty bold of her to even ask.
My mom and I have had many conversations about what we want to happen after we die (working in probate gives plenty of openings), and this is exactly what I’d want her to do with my money when I die. Maybe not the drinking beer part because she doesn’t drink, but I would want her to do something that will bring her joy when she’s able to feel like the world won’t shatter around her if she moves wrong. You are NTA. My condolences for you and your family as you live through this. 
NTA and sorry for your loss.

While it was a joke between you and your son what better way to remember him than fondly and doing that which you joked about together.

Enjoy that case of monk beer and raise a toast in your son's memory.
NTA at all. Go for it and I’m sure your son would approve, have fun! As for your ex, she needa speak to her husband.

So sorry for your loss
NTA, go to Europe, celebrate your son. From one dad to another, I'm so sorry for your loss. You got me shedding some tears here.
Tell her his step dad didn’t want to provide for him, so why should you provide for a child who isn’t yours? NTA op and I’m sorry for your loss
NTA...you are honouring your son's memory by living the joke you had with him. That is what this is about. Your ex's stepson is her responsibility, particularly if she wasn't contributing to the fund (which I don't get from the post).
NTA - First of all, I am sorry for your loss. Secondly, I am from Belgium, and happy to help you with tips for your trip to Belgium! I hope you can take the trip in honor of your son!
NTA. I'm so sorry for your loss. Enjoy your beer, I'm sure your son will be cheering you on!!
NTA.

I got a preview of the title through the Reddit app, but it was shortened. I basically saw, "AITA if I spent my kid's college fund on booze?" I clicked ready to tell you how much you sucked. But this is just heartbreaking. I'm so sorry for your loss. Do whatever you want with that money. If one last joke is going to help you heal, do it. Giving it away won't bring him back. Nothing will. So do something kind for yourself as you're forced to deal with some of the worst pain imaginable. Raise a glass to him. Raise many. Find a reason to laugh and smile through the pain. 🤍
I am incredibly sorry to hear this. 

NTA.  You always told your son you would do this and now the only option is to make good on it. I hope you have an amazing trip and enjoy your life with your wife. 

It sounds like you have no reason to stay in contact with your ex at this point anyways so who cares what she thinks.
NTA. I can tell you're hurting. Do it. It will help in the healing. You do what you want in your son's honor. Don't let anyone make you feel bad for it. 
You try so hard to lighten the tone of your post but the love you have for your son and the pain of losing him really comes across.

So sorry for your loss.

NTA, he would be proud of you, go get beer from the Belgian monks.
INFO: Did your ex contribute to the fund as well? Because if so, I do think you should reimburse her for her contributions. If not, then go with God and I'm sorry for your loss.
Wow, this hit me harder than I expected. I'm so sorry for your loss, the world is so unfair. I think the way you want to spend his money is beautiful - a way to not only honour his legacy but spend some time with his spirit, as I have no doubt he'll be accompanying you on this trip. 

  
For what it's worth, I think it's gross that your wife is asking for the money. 

  
Ps. I also think your son would have found it hilarious.
Some money is meant to waste. My brother died at 24. I got his share of inheritance from our father. I didn't want it. But i got it. I packed up the kids and showed them where there uncle had his semester abroad an was so incredibly happy. Visited all the place he send pictures from. It was like walking with him by my side, i felt him close. Yes, i had spend that money wiser but definitely not better.
Enjoy your beer and hear your son laugh his ass off. 
Cheers
My god you Haven had the time to grieve for your son! Your wife is like a vulture striking on your vulnerable moment! 
Spend the money as you want!
You will not have any regret in the end. What will happen if you had a falling out with your wife? 
I am so so sorry for your lost!
I have the same running joke with my kids, but it's Mexico! 
NTA my children and I have shared many a laugh of what my time in Mexico would be like especially now they are grown, at this point it would be sacrilegious not too, the ONLY way that money should be spent. Enjoy your time in Europe, it's what your son would have wanted x
My boyfriend talks about this monk beer often. NTA
How absolutely disgusting of that so called mother instead of grieving her son she’s trying pry money out of your hands for her fucking step son. Make sure you spend the lot fuck that shite.
I am so sorry.  From the way you speak of your son, your loss is also ours (said with only respect and no intent to intrude upon your pain.)  Don't listen to anyone else.  If your European trip softens your grief, even to a tiny degree, it is worth it.  Very much NTA.
Nta but why is your ex wife not helping with the funeral arrangements? That’s her son too…and now shes here acting like a vulture. Block her and dont give a flying fish abt her. Her current husband didnt treat your son like family so why should you be his kid’s ATM?
Enjoy the beer. Is it the Westvleteren? I had some while in Belgium. It was tasty and expensive.
NTA go and have that westvleteren. 
I would love to think that if any of that money had been left over, after your sons education. You could have gone together. So sorry for your loss.
This is sad, I'm sorry for your loss, absolutely NTA, go and have the best trip in your son's honour, you both deserve it.
I’m so sorry for your loss. I’m sure in some way your son will be with you as you raise a glass or several to him on your trip.
NTA obviously. Warm wishes from Belgium, we can’t wait for your visit :)
NTA no explanation needed.
NTA. 

You are not wasting the money. You are honouring your son in a way you think he would appreciate. Go get your beer. Raise one for your boy.
NTA. First, my sincerest condolences. Second, you are under zero obligation to give your step child anything, your ex is out of line. You made a plan for the money intended for YOUR son, and want to see it through. If that is what your son would want you to do, then enjoy your trip.
NTA - DM me if you want any suggestions.  I’ve done that trip 3 times.
Nta. This was agony to read. I am so sorry. I'd be happy to use cashapp to buy you a round.
Why the fuck would your ex ask you something like that while you’re planning his funeral? That’s pretty disgusting. Fuck that selfish camel. 

I’m sorry about your boy, and I think he would get a laugh out of your plans too. ❤️
I’m with you and you on this one. A European toast for your son. A laugh, a smile, a tear, then back to the grind.
NTA. Do what makes you happy! I fail to see why you would be expected to give it to someone you have no relationship with.
NTA. We all grieve in our own way and you need to do this for yourself and your connection to your son. Don't let anyone dissuade you.


I'm so sorry you're going through this.
One hundred percent NTA.


May his memory be a blessing, I'm so sorry for your loss.
NTA. I couldn't imagine losing a child, I'm sorry you're dealing with that.


As for the money, it was for your son. Your ex's step kid from the new husband isn't your responsibility whatsoever. Not sure why she'd think anyone on that side is even entitled to it. It is YOUR money you saved for your son.
NTA - Very sorry for your loss. That money was never for anyone else. Your ex is opportunistic to think that she has any right to ask for that money. It's not her money to spend or have. Go on your trip, remember your son, and how proud you are of him. Don't think about her for a second.
Nta frankly I can't believe her audacity. 


I'm sorry about your son. 
NTA - The fact that she even thought it appropriate to ask when she did tells me all I need to know about her. She is not a good person.
NTA
My deepest condolences. 

Imagine the balls on the ex to approach him about the money after the loss of their child. And for someone who has no relationship to OP.
The entitlement is off the charts. 

OP, go enjoy Europe.
I’m not a big beer drinker, but I did enjoy the beers in Belgium.
How dare she! That is not your son.

You drink up for your boy! I am so so sorry for you loss. ❤️

I hope everyday that goes by, it can hurt a little less. 

A good Belgium beer can help!
NTA. Wow. McGill. That’s so awesome. How horrid it is for you both to lose a child. You are NTA for using the funds on a trip. 

You may also want to set up a scholarship in memory of your son at his school or at McGill. I know a few people who set up scholarships in memory of their kids who died young.
NTA and the only things I can say, I'm so sorry about your son and cheers mate like you said, he would be laughing at this
NTA. This did not go at all the way I thought it would from the title; this story made my heart hurt. I am so sorry for your loss. 

I don't fault your ex for asking, but her attitude suggests she feels *entitled* to the money, and not that she was asking you to do her a major kindness. To hell with that. 

Using the money to follow through on your old inside joke sounds like an excellent and healthy way to deal with the grief of losing your son; it's not wasting money, it's going to be a form of therapy for you.
I’m so sorry for your loss. It sounds like the trip to Belgium would be an amazing way of honoring your son and his good sense of humour. Bruges in particular is beautiful and have two great breweries in the actual city. 

You’re definitely NTA.
NTA.  If I had that ongoing joke with my family, and something happened to me, I would be pissed if they didn't go on that trip.  This is a moment for you to grieve and celebrate his life.  Please take the trip.
NTA at all. The money will not be "wasted" (you might be getting wasted) but that is absolutely worth every penny.
I am so sorry for your loss, I can't even imagine how you're dealing with it but I'd say taking this trip is an absolute MUST. You deserve to enjoy every minute of it.
Goodness, I thought it was going to be your own stepson asking for the money. I think your ex was really out of line for even making that request, that's just nuts. NTA, and I'm so sorry for your loss. I hope you have a lovely, restorative trip.
>My son would laugh his ass off

Seems like this is the best way to honor his memory.

NTA. Obviously.
Your son is your memory, and a part of you.   
Yes, and always yes, he will forever be a part that is gone, but not forgotten, and always loved. 

But! Make a small fund, a helping fund, if you will, under his name, that can grow, and be like "*500 Dollars for school under NAME of son, to be payed, once a year*".   


For the rest? Celebrate his life, don't mourn and drink, celebrate art, sports, or what ever you have, go to Europe, get drunk the first three days, get dressed, cleaned, and see all the things you wanted him to see, and get in on it. Understand it! Eat good food, try new beers, sing new songs. Live as the father you'd never had the chance to be.   


Celebrate all the years you had, but be kind to yourself. Be understanding that you hurt, and be understanding that others hurt too. be kind, drink beer, and eat food. Celebrate, don't wallow in sadness.   


NTA
NTA, I am so sorry for your loss.
NTA.  Drink one for me!  I love a good Trappist Ale.
NTA it's your money and seems like a fabulous way to honour your son
Have a beer, have a cry, toast your son. My sincere condolences 
NTA. You are the one who paid in. It can't be used for the intended purpose. Go. Have a beer. Think of your son.
Definitely NTA. You go get the Monk brewed beer.
NTA. I am so incredibly sorry for your loss and your son sounds like a special person. You deserve to honor him however you see fit. He will be with you on your trip.
Go for it. Honor your son's memory. NTA.
NTA. Not your stepson, not your responsibility
I am so sorry this has happened and absolutely NTA. 

Your ex wife asked and you said no, that should be the end of it.

Please enjoy your trip, drink many beers in different places in Europe and let us all know if you come to the UK. It’d be great if you could at least have a beer with one of us to remember your son!
NTA, sorry for your loss.  Your plan sounds like a fantastic way to honor your son and sounds like he'd be all for you doing it.  Don't let others talk you out of it.
My condolences first of all.

You would definitely not be the AH for using your money in any way you want, and your late son's college fund is essentially your money. I understand your ex wanting to spend it on your stepson, but like her new husband said about his stepson, you have no financial responsibility towards your wife's stepson. Spend the money on your trip and make some memories in remembrance of your son.
NTA OP. And my condolences to your son.   
Even if you were to "waste" thousands of dollars, your son earned the scholarship money, not his stepbrother. And as for the RESP, I assume that you were the primary holder next to your son on how he wish to spend the money. Again, it's your/your son's account. 

Drink and be merry as best you can and honor your son's memories!
Your wife is wrong: as terrible as this is for any parent, its not your son‘s money any longer. It is yours again, to do with as you wish.

NTA and drink one for your son for me as well.
It's always "stupid" for you to spend your own money when it could go to me. It's never stupid for me to spend my own money how I want and not give it to someone else.   
Different points of view. NTA.
It's not a waste of money if honoring your inside joke with your son helps you to start finding peace.
NTA
Christ on a cracker I’m so sorry for your loss. As a fellow parent, go drink as much fucking beer as you want.
My heart hurts for you. Go. Be as merry as you can. Celebrate his way too short life. Maybe bring your wife as a guide for your grief. I’ll raise a glass myself to him on you and your son’s behalf.

If you’d like I’ll send a prayer to Dionysus and Hades for your son.
NTA

sorry for your loss, OP

I'm not religious in practice, but I can just picture your son sitting next to you at the bar, smiling, happy for you that you followed through with it. Doing whatever you can to mourn is never a waste. Money can always be made. Experiences are fleeting. Have a great time. Sending love ❤️
INFO

I'm not familiar with the Canadian system, but in the American system multiple people can pay into college savings accounts. Were you the only one who paid into this account?

Obviously if you were the only one who paid in it's yours to do whatever you want with, and frankly unless you were incredibly close to your ex it was a _bold_ request on her part.

But _if_ another relative paid in, then that might change my opinion a bit. If I'd paid into a college fund for a relative and it wound up going to fund someone's vacation, I might be a little cross. Not hugely cross because it's not like you stole it. But a little cross.
Assuming your ex didn't contribute to the fund. NTA. Everyone mourns different and making a trip you always joked about seems like one way of grieving. I'd hold off any major life decisions, but a trip to Europe isn't really that expensive in the scheme of things. 


If I die I want my family to scatter ashes in some far away place so they can enjoy a vacation instead of sitting around mourning.
NTA - Her step son is not your son. She is not your wife.
He's not your step son, he's your ex-wife's step son.  Make a good toast to your son on your trip.  NTA.
NTA. This trip is more that a trip to drink beer. It's a way to honor your son and the relationship you all had.
Santé. Cheers. Your son is smiling. NTA.
NTA, that's your money. Not your exes. Sorry for your loss.
NTA. This is something you are doing for your healing. Also, if he wasn't going to pay for your sins education why would you pay for his? He has the same opportunity to set those funds up for his own damn kid.
NTA. I'm so sorry for your loss. This trip is a great way to honor your son's memory and doing something good for yourself. I'm a Canadian living in Belgium so if you need help finding the beer-making monks, feel free to write me a message.
NTA,

I'm so sorry for your loss.

to my knowledge there are rules on who the money is able to be transferred to and from my little knowledge it's only between siblings with the same parents but this information will need to be confirmed, and if that's actually true and your ex hasn't adopted the step kid then there's nothing that she can do about the money. also if you are 100% sure that you can collect the money then go ahead and go on a beer tour and make some memories on behalf of your son.
NTA

Your ex's stepson doesn't get to reap the benefits from your deceased son.

Have a beer for me.
nta. enjoy a beer for your son. lost my son 4 years ago on mother's day.   I take his ashes with me on trips, but the majority of his ashes are with my daughters in Colorado, where he always wanted to live.   Cheers!
NTA in the least. I am absolutely shocked and disgusted at your exes request. 

To your ex: JFC lady, were you and your husband sniffing around after your son's educational fund the very same day he was killed, or did you wait a respectful 24 hours to initiate money grubbing from a grieving father? Despicable.
Your ex is the 100% asshole for even asking.
NTA.

I'm assuming you don't have much connection to the step son. Clearly you're not financially connected, though if you two had become super close I could see helping him out. That or if your son was really close to him and was pushing him to succeed.

Otherwise, it's your money. You thought about it, which is very nice of you, and decided that wasn't what you wanted to do. Your ex had every right to ask, and now that you've said no, she has no right to complain or call you stupid. She was never expecting to see a dime of it, and it's strange she suddenly thinks that you'll use it on someone else's kid.

Take care!
NTA. Your ex is crazy to even suggest that. Why would you be financially responsible to somebody else’s kid if you’re not even their step dad? I’m sorry for your loss! But that money isn’t wasted at all if it’s used for the once in a lifetime trip of your dreams, especially if it helps you heal.
Your ex has some weird sense of entitlement that shouldn’t be there, let alone strong enough to actually present this idea to you as an actually okay proposition. You owe literally nothing to that child who has a dad of his own to pay for his education….. NTA. Your ex-wife is being a weirdo.
Where are my Belgians ?  This guy needs a local guide!
NTA, your ex is insane to even ask wtf.
NTA and I’m so very sorry for your loss. I can’t imagine, but my husband lost his best friend (a newlywed with a 8month pregnant wife) to a drunk driver a month before the baby was born and it was devastating. 
You deserve to spend that money to honour your son and his memory in whatever way you see fit. 
Cheers
NTA.  Stop by Montreal on the way to Europe.   We have some pretty good brews here.  Drink a toast to your late son in the mountain.
NTA. This isn’t even YOUR stepson, it’s your ex-wives stepson. You don’t owe them shit. Go have a great time in honor of your son’s memory and I’m so sorry for your loss.
Can't imagine a better way to spend the money. That's keeping a promise and saying goodbye.

Sorry for your loss.

NTA


My sympathies. 

NTA

You are doing something your son would  love you to do.
He got the joke and he would be fine with you doing exactly what you said.
He can't use it. You may as well.

If the stepfather would not pay for your child. You sure as frack shouldn't be paying for his with your son's money.

Go drink beer in Europe and offer cheers for your son.

The ex can frack off.
Absolutely nothing strikes my soul than the thought of losing one of my kids. Big virtual hug to you. You know you're NTA. I should be surprised by the unmitigated gall of your ex but I'm not. Not hard to see why she's an ex. It would be lovely if she somehow stumbled across this post. Get a Magill hoodie, Go to Europe. Drink the beer. Bring a photo of him and prop it up on the bar beside you and toast him at every stop. You'll laugh and you'll cry but he sounds like he'd want you to go.
You know where your judgement stands. All the love to you. If you are ever in the states near Indiana I'd buy you one.

Also if anything your son would want you to go. It was the running joke WITH HIM he would want you too
Your ex is kind of out of pocket for asking that money that has nothing to do with her if she put nothing in it or her stepson tbh
Comments in this feed did NOT disappoint!! Sir, go get that case!! Pour one out for your homie and live your best life in his honor!!! But man, the audacity of that woman to ask... yikes!!
Awe man. So sorry for your loss.  Jesus my dad worked so hard and had the same fund for my younger brother.  He went, dropped out, and the money expired.  Anyways, my dad died- my bro ended up going back (took out loans and worked) kicked ass in university and has his masters in aerospace engineering. 

Your post made me miss my dad alot.  Just wanted to say that, and thanks for sharing.
NTA. coming from a SAHM whose husband fully supplies our kids college funds and whatnot. if i was told that money put aside was for my son or daughter, (and if they passed) and then if we ever got divorced and had other children/stepchildren, i would never expect a single dollar to go towards those kids. i could never be so vindictive to expect or ask for that money for another child. such a heartless thing to ask for.
NTA for honouring your son in a way he'd approve. It was your money to begin with, your ex wife sounds entitled
Hi there OP. Idk if you see this. I hope you do. 

Out here in California - we actually have something that we do. When one of our street buddies die we have a saying. “One for me and one for the homies.” We take a drink of our beer then we pour a little out of the floor. 

Before it was a joke when you’re young. But as you get older - you realize it’s not a joke. It’s a hard truth. A lot of us don’t make it into our 20 and beyond. 

I hope you enjoy your beer and I do hope you pour a little onto the floor. 

NTA. 

Also funny I should read this today on my friends birthday who died young. I’ll be sure to pour some out for my homie too.
NTA

Let me get this straight.  We're not even talking about your son's half-brother; we're talking about his mom's stepson.  Is she trying to win some favour with her husband or something?  That is SO ridiculous.  You honour your son as you see fit and never mind anyone else.
oh man.

I was in HS with likely the most brilliant dude ill ever meet. taking calculus 4 at Villanova University, while a HS senior, solving a triple unbalanced integral problem, 5 line math problem... fricking brilliant.

Christmas vacation after graduating, he and his mother were both killed by a drunk driver.

I have NEVER driven drunk, I never in college had a single beer and drove, all because of peter.



do not think your son didn't change people's lives. I wish I could find Peter's father, and let him know what his son's short life meant to me.



you are quite possibly, the biggest NTA ive commented on. there is not a shred of AH, in any aspect of this story. not one dit, not one tiddle.​​​​

there basically is no "wrong way" to grieve a loss like this. "you expect to bury your parents. there is no worse experience on the planet, than a parent having to bury a child". ive been to too many funerals, of parents having to bury children. There is nothing worse. I mean this as kindly as possible, but I hope to never understand what you're going through. I truly hope you are the last person who will ever understand the feelings of a situation like this, but sadly, you won't be.​

  
enjoy the beer, remember the good times. and share the story, maybe there will be other HS kids like me, who will see this story, and will NEVER drive intoxicated because of that.

i would never be able to live with myself, if I had been the driver that killed peter.​
NTA, and I have to say, this comment is going to be taken down so hard so soon but like at this point these next words will perfectly encapsulate how I feel and when this comment is taken down I will then recomment in a much kinder tone....I am very sorry for your loss and I hope that one day it gets better for you and your family.

THE FUCK? The ex's child died and literally not even the funeral has commenced she asks for the money that was dedicated to him? I am losing my mind guys, I thought she was going to ask at a later date like a month, 2 or even a year but no the funeral it self hasn't started wtf wtah I am literally going insane the horror to ask a question like that when her SON DIED and just casually asks for the money dedicated to him. Guys my stomach literally doesn't feel good and I am a stranger, imagine OP the DAD at seeing his EX ask this heartless question. Honestly I hope you shit on the money infront of her holy hell.   
EDIT CUZ I AM MANIC

The only connection the two (OP and ex) apart from a shared history was their son. Not only did she have the gall to ask OP for money for EX's stepson whom OP has no connection to whatsoever but asked this question BEFORE the funeral?
Came to say the same thing. It isn't transferable to step siblings so the entire argument is pointless drama.
This right here.
I assume if he can cash it out to go drink beer in Europe, he could also cash it out and give to his ex's stepson. Not saying that he should but the transfer aspect I would guess doesn't really come into play here.
You’re so good for offering actually helpful information! 🫡🫡
You're a good soul.
small farm Belgian beers sound immaculate
Thank you.
NTA. I thought this was going to be about your stepson, which still be a N-T-A. 

You saved the money. You don't have a relationship with your ex's stepson. Not that you'd be obligated, but it's not even clear they need the money for something crucial. Your ex is an AH for approaching you about this money so soon. 

My condolences. I hope you have a nice trip and get some good beer.
I’m a bartender and always love telling people the pouring of libations is an ancient thing. NTA at all
This the only comment that is needed for this post. 

OP I am so sorry for your loss. I hope you make some memories in Europe that will be healing. <3
Piggybacking on this comment to agree that you are NTA and that you should go on that trip in honor of your son.  Based on your post, I think this is such a great way to use that money.
I have only drank one Guinness beer in my life, and it was for my friend who passed in 2018. Money spent in memory of those lost is NOT wasted. Take your trip dude. If you truly believe he would have loved for you to do it, then take the trip, and tell them to pour one for him too. Sorry for your loss dude, NTA
>I thought it was a clickbait title but this is a sad fucking post

I clicked thinking "you mean your step son?" and that there'd be no way OP isn't the AH.

I came away just wanting to give OP a hug.

Go drink that beer and honor your son, OP.
NTA - Even if OP were "Wasting His Money", It's his money to waste. But agreed, not a waste to honor your child in a way fitting of your relationship.
Thanks for the offer. I'm going to update when I'm there. I would appreciate it if you had one with me instead. 
I am so sorry for your loss as well as OP. This was a kind and supportive message to him.
If he posts his Venmo while at a bar and promises to drink the beers we would send I fear for his liver.
Dude, I don't want to sound callous, but never send money to people posting stories on these subs. Most of them are made up, and some are made up with the express intention of scamming people out of money.
I’m sorry for the loss of your sister. It cut my to the quick that her letter sat on her vanity. You and your family are in my thoughts. 

To OP: Next beer I have will be drank in honor of your son. I’m sorry for your loss as well. Your ex is a pile of poo. It was money you saved for your son. You get to do whatever you need to in order to get through this.
This gave me chills. I’m so sorry, I can’t even imagine. Thank you for sharing.

Also, OP, you so NAH. Honor your son and yourself. Your ex can figure it out. It’s actually appalling that she’d even ask. You aren’t being selfish, you’re honoring a sweet memory and I’m sure your son would want you to do nothing less. Go live the best life for the both of you.
That's the stuff I want. It is by lottery so I probably will only try it at the visitors centre. 
She shouldn't have asked. Asking for a deceased child's college fund wouldn't be out of line for, say, a sibling who was asking for OP's niece or nephew, or someone else who had a close relationship with him and his son. But an ex asking for her own stepson, who OP likely has no relationship with, was out of line. She is probably dealing with her grief by focusing on her stepson, but she shouldn't have asked OP to do the same.  
And I say this as someone who actually agrees that this is a stupid thing to do and a waste of money in general. But it's OP's money to waste if he wants, his ex doesn't get a say, and in this particular case it might help him deal with his loss, so it may even be worth it.
She has a lot of nerve asking for the money, considering OP seems to be the only one who contributed to it.
I actually found a bottle at a small beer shop in Ghent... Definitely worth exploring every shop you can because you never know what you'll find! They have a limited amount they distribute within Belgium as well. Absolutely have a beer in his honour. NTA.
I didn't realize that many people knew about it. 
My son wanted study microbiology and immunology. He has thrown for a loop by the pandemic and he wanted to make sure it didn't happen again. He talked about a lot of stuff that went over my head. I'm a baker. I understand yeast. 


He loved the Habs. I would get us tickets at least once a year. 


He loved kayaking with me. We are so close to so much water. 
What a lovely thing to say. Thank you!
Ex wife. Not his current wife.
From the sounds of it you are not wasting money at all.  You are taking a trip that will be good for your soul, and seeing a part of the world you have wanted to see.  Many people do this all the time it is just that they are not doing it with money that someone had the audacity to ask them to spend on someone they have no relation to.
Right?!?! I was reading it thinking it was HIS stepson for some reason. I can’t believe his EX has the guts to ask for it for HER stepson. Just wild.
Yes!!! Please!!! You may have more drinking buddies than you realize;-)!
This made me cry for some reason. That was beautiful.
Agreed. It was OP’s money for his son. Now it’s OP’s money to spend in honor of the memory of his son in any way he sees fit.
For HER stepson at that!
I know a woman who disappeared to Alaska for a year when her son died. We went to Europe a few months after our son passed. Getting away and a change of scenery to clear your head a bit is really important. It was the first time I felt any emotions other than extreme grief mixed with shock. A bit of a reset knowing life could go on and those emotions came with us instead of consuming us. Op should do it. For sure.
Thanks. I may take you up on it.
You must have gotten whiplash if that was all you read.
She did not.  I make a lot more money than her and it was part of our budget that I handled. 
I'm glad I'm not the only one with that sense of humour 
Can you please ask him to tell me about it? 
No. Her husband is a decent person. He has his own son to look after. My son had two parents. My ex's husband is a good person that was never cruel or abusive towards my son. He and I had a good relationship. He is a good person. The reason I took care of the funeral arrangements is because my son lived with me to finish high school. I was responsible for him. We still lived in the Eastern Townships. My ex and her husband just moved to Montreal last year. He was going to live with them while he was in university. 
Yes. 
I was planning on taking him when he graduated. 
Will do. 
I appreciate the offer. In going to put up an update when I'm there. I would prefer if you had one with me from wherever you are. 
Who would that fund go to? I see zero reasons to give that momey to the stepson of his ex whom he has zero ties with.
Thank you. He would appreciate it.
I probably put in 95% of the principal. Not counting what the government put in. 
I work with RESP's in my job and its a bit different here.

Yes, anyone can contribute to an RESP and those contributions are tracked for grant-related purposes. However, the division of the RESP would have been resolved during the divorce if it had been jointly held. If OP's ex had a legal claim to the RESP it would have been dealt with already.

In the case of divorce a co-owner can also be removed, which I would assume would have been done if necessary.
I'm in the Eastern Townships. I know Montreal well. 
They were not even step siblings.  It is OP's ex's new husband's son. Absolutely no relation to Op in any way.

Edit: you are all correct they were step siblings. My brain was not working correctly! Still nothing to do with OP
The plan can't be transferred to OP's ex's step son. So regardless of what OP does he is going to have to cash it out and lose the government grants in it.
I believe the comment about “wasting” thousands of dollars implied that there was a belief that the RESP could be transferred so that the education-only requirements would be met and money from the fund would not be “wasted” in the same manner as taking the money out to go to Belgium where portions would have to be remitted back to the government. 

This is why I believe the commentator made the comments about transferability. If the money lost to the government was the same either way, then it is less “wasted”. If the fund was worth $20 to the step son but only $12 to the father then it would seem more compelling to transfer it. However, it is only going to be worth $12 to anyone. The ex wife could take a loan for the same amount and gift it to her son and it would be the same amount.
So it's his money again. Would she have said "hey how about giving my son who you're unrelated to so money?"
I deal with RESP's everyday at work so for once I'm glad to be able to contribute something helpful. :)
Dude, sorry for your loss, enjoy that beer in your son's honor, man, NTA
Sorry for your loss OP.  I think you're doing the right thing.

And you're going to have a great time. If you're a beer drinker, you're going to love it here!

In addition to the Monks' beer (also try+buy their Abdijkaas/Paterkaas/Trappistenkaas-artisinal abbey cheese made by monks-it's freaking delicious with fresh crusty bread), I recommend Delirium bar down town Brussels.  They have 2000+ beers on offer. Ask anyone at the bar for information. They know their stuff.  Three floors, good vibey music.  
Try the Absinthe bar opposite too-great customer service there and they'll walk you through the selection and how to drink it.  
The Tequila bar on the corner serves lovely free sangritas with every shot. Also 3 floors  but ambiance, and music is groundfloor.  
Witness Jeanneke Pis and the Belgians' bizarre fondness for statues of children peeing right next to the Absinthe bar. Make sure to throw a coin in for good luck.  
*This is all in just one 30m*(*100ft*) *cul-de-sac.* 

Grande Place (*rub the Everard t'Serclaes* *statue for good luck if you come across it*)  + Galerie du Roi is close-by and nice walk around too. You can buy chocolates until late into the night. Waffle stands and chip shops open all night. You can also buy nice beer at the night shops-open all day and night.

Also, it's 4- seasons in a day weather, so pack for all eventualities.

Enjoy!
[deleted]
OP, your ex's husband set the bar, not you.  He'd stated categorically that he would not support your son.  His right.  Now it's your right not to support his.

Soooo NTA.  Go have those beer(not too much, mind) and think back on all those times you joked about it.
I agree, totally NTA.


And sorry for your loss.


Apart from not being responsible for your step-son I'd also like to ass that going on that trip to Europe and drink that beer in your sons honour is in fact not a waste of money. Spending money on living life or experiences is never a waste of money imo. Trips like this, a drink with a friend etc. That's what's life is about at the end of the day. Additionally it would be spend on you, for yourself and would be a part of your grieving process. How could that be a waste?


And it sounds like your son would probably want you to go and have that beer. So go and have it.
Tell your ex to kick sand. Go blow the froth of some coldies in Europe to honour your son. I’m so sorry for your loss bloke.
Tell her you are taking the trip you will never get to have with him. She sees it as blowing money on beer. It is more than that. It was a bucket list item you shared with your son.

Go get your peace and drink beer with some monks.

NTA.
Come to Germany too and have another beer here! Make the most of the trip and spend some nice moments away from everything and just with yourself and good memories.
Something to tell your ~~wife~~ ex-wife:

"YOUR stepson is not MY stepson. I'm sorry you and your new hubby didn't save up money, but YOUR stepson has zero relation to me, and has zero connection with me. To YOUR stepson I am essentially a random neighbor who has money, and you're trying to make a random stranger pay for YOUR stepson".

It's your money. It's not your ex's money, it's not your ex's stepson, and it's not "their" money.

I'm so sorry for your loss. It sounds like you really loved him, and I can't think of any words to say that would ever replace that hole that has been left.

edit: changed it to "ex-wife", because I thought I did it at first but guess I didn't.
Yes. Go on your trip. Do it for your son. I’m sorry for your loss. You don’t owe your ex anything. You saved that money. You get to decide what to do with it.
This is the best thing you could possibly do under these circumstances. Go and celebrate his life. He would get a good laugh. I hope you feel his energy often💗 sending love.

Edit: NTA
I'm sorry for your loss.  I think this is a wonderful way to remember your son.  If you can swing it, try to go to Bruges.  We went a few years ago and I loved it so much and recommend it to everyone.  They have lots of little pubs.  There is one in particular, but I can't remember the name.  If my husband remembers, I'll edit this post.  I hope you have a great trip and can find ways to remember and honor your boy.
Go enjoy your trappist beer in honour of your son.  My condolences for his untimely death.  Your ex is in no way entitled to that money.
Damn, I'm so sorry for your loss. Your son sounds like a great guy and I bet he would love the thought of you drinking beer for him. I'm so sorry your ex is a heartless bovine with no emotional intelligence. The audacity to request your son's money for some kid that is no relation to you is boggling.

Go drink the beer and toast your son in heaven. Every second drink, curse the bovine.
🍻

In Heaven there is no beer
That's why we drink it here
And when we're gone from here
All our friends will be drinking all that beer
I dunno if your son would have liked Aussie beer but me and the boys on the line at work (restaurant kitchen) have cracked open Great Northerns in his honor. Your story deeply touched a group of Aussie chefs, we've all texted our dads. Enjoy your trip dude, sounds like it's definitely what your son would have wanted.
I’m so sorry for your loss. I think it’s a perfect use of the money.
Go, drink some lovely Trappist beer, go to Delirium in Brussels, and see all the different beers, so many to try in just one location, thought there are tons and tons of just great pubs in Belgium. People probably waste more money on things that give them less meaning in their lives, so do it, you promised your son.
I'd say go to Vleteren in Belgium for the Westvleteren 12 which is considered by some to be the best beer in the world. It's brewed by monks and sold by the doors of the monastery itself, to individual buyers on an advance-order basis.

I'm so sorry for your loss. 

I think this is a wonderful way to honour your son, and having joked about this with your son, I hope actually doing this will help you in the grief process.

NTA
My dude she asked you that during funeral arrangements?! How callous. My heart goes out to you
I highly suggest the Brasserie d'Orval S.A. In Florenville, Belgium. The Omelette at the restaurant uses the cheese they make from the cow milk after the cows have eaten the hops. Delicious!
Blessings to you. When you get to Belgium try and check out Delirium and Cantillon in Brussels, De Garre in Bruges, ‘t Galgenhuisje in Gent and St Bernardus in Watou. Enjoy all the beer and remembering your sweet boy.
I am (sadly) not Canadian so I don't know how that RESP thing works, but based on your post it sounds like you put money in and the government adds some and then it can be used for education. If it is not used for education, do you get your money back? Is there interest you get back? Are there penalties?

If your son liked his step brother and assuming your ex can buy you out, would you consider letting her reimburse you for what you would get back and then give the fund to the step brother?

I know you would pay every cent you have to get your kid back, but feel no obligation to your ex's step son. But if it costs you nothing out of pocket and you think your son would be happy if you did it, could you be okay with giving the government part of the fund to your son's stepbrother?

Regardless of your choice, you are NTA. I am sorry for your loss.
huh, so theres a name for what i did when my best friend died suddenly.

"Gimme two beers and two shots, and pour one of each down the drain."
I heard in a podcast not too long ago that the biggest thing you can do for a loved one is to get life insurance. So if you pass, they can take the time not to worry about money and to mourn and grief as hard as they must. Different situation but the same principle applies. 

My heart goes to you OP, I hope you can keep those joyous memories of your son alive. Go drink that beer on his name.
If you don’t want to be alone in Belgium, you can try to message me. I’m from there, with loads of free time and if I can keep a grieving father company it would be my honor to do so!
NTA, and seriously, update us with a date and time. I bet a lot of Redditors would raise a glass with you wherever they are. I am so sorry for your loss.
OP,  Please let us know when you go, so we can all have a (virtual) drink with you in honor of your son.
I don’t drink, except for the trace amount of alcohol in kombucha. So I will raise a bottle of that to both your son, and u/mylittlewedding ‘s sister. I hope the trip is healing for you. I’m so terribly sorry for your loss. You are NTA.
I am so sorry for your loss. I can’t even imagine what you’ve been through. I hope you will go on the best trip to Belgium to honour your son. I live in the Netherlands, pretty close to the Belgium border. If you want some tips for great cities or places please let me know. I hope you can honour your son in the best way possible. 
If you have a chance, stop by Weihenstephan. It was founded in 1040 and is the oldest continuously operated brewery in the world.
If you come to Belgium I'm more than happy to celebrate with you my man. We got the best beer here!
‘Sorry for your loss’ just doesn’t seem like enough. ❤️

I think there’s a lot of us who would like to have a beer with you while you’re there. Maybe you could setup a Facebook event for a certain day/time and share the link.  Then we could share pics of us having one with you so you don’t feel like you’re doing it alone. 

May this trip bring you the peace that you deserve.
I am so sorry for your loss.  Your ex is out of line.  Please go to Belgium and enjoy that delicious Tripl Ale and raise a glass for your son.  💔

Please come back and update with stories from your trip.

NTA
I’m gonna have a drink to you and your son right now. My condolences.
Yes, let us know! We will all raise a glass of our preferred beverage in your son’s memory. I am so sorry for your loss and think your plan is a good one. Definitely NTA.
Not in Belgium, but if you pop by Ireland you will also have a fiend for a beer!
I don't drink, but Belgium does chocolate right? Update us all and I'll join your toast with that, if that's ok? I'm so sorry for your loss.
Could you share publicly? I think the lot of us would virtually have a drink with you.
Let me know if you’re in Paris, I’d love to buy you a beer and listen to your stories about your son !
I want to see that update Op. 

/updateme
Anyone else in Montreal? I’ll have a beer with you OP
Message me your your son's name and I'll raise a glass in Scotland for him.

He would fully approve of this trip. If its possible, take a train to Bruges and watch the horses go by while you partake in a long plank of beers. You'll know the place. I'm sorry for your loss but this is a way to use your money in tribute. Good luck!
I am pretty certain with this running joke between you and your son, your son was already planning to take you there himself once he starts earning money off the back of the college fund you prepared for him. Now you really could get that monk's beer in Belgium, even indirectly, through your son. Much love and sorry for your loss.
I agree. That's why I thanked him and asked that he share one with me virtually when I'm there. 
It’s not by lottery, you need to go on their website and then can register for a slot. Only difficulty is that you need to register a number plate which is hard to do in advance with a rental
It’s a must-do and I’m sure your son would want you to experience it and be happy. My thoughts are with you and your family, I hope bright days lay ahead for you.
I am truly sorry for your loss. 

While in Belgium, make sure to also head South and visit the Orval Abbey. Their beer is also a Trappist, but altogether different than Westvleteren (or Chimay, or Rochefort, also in the French speaking part, but more similar to Westvleteren)

NTA
Belgian beer is the best, try more than just the goldcap.
I got a case of that beer by installing an app that calls a couple time a minute to get through. But otherwise the visiting center offers probably some.  You have to give the licenseplate of the car you're coming with.
That’s a wonderful bittersweet memory you can make in honour of your amazing son. My son in law is going to leave us soon from brain cancer and he is the most amazing man I’ve ever had the honour of knowing, so I really feel your pain. ❤️
Hey OP, first and foremost my condolences to you and your family. 2nd, NTA. 3rd, the Westy 12 is worth the trek. The area it’s in is also just nice Belgian countryside. I’d recommend staying a night or two over at the St. Bernardus’ BNB while you’re there (they were given the same recipe a few decades ago which is why St. Abt 12 is similar) and are very close to the Westy brewery. 

Plus if you strike out on the crate you can go to the visitor center multiple days and grab as many 6 packs as you can. I lugged back like 2 Westy 12 packs and a Westy 8 while I was out there in 2017. Just recently finished the last one with my wife on our wedding day. Aged beautifully in that 7 year span. 

Enjoy your trip! And check out other places in Belgium too! Antwerp has an awesome beer bar called Kulminator with tons of cellar aged beers from across Belgium.
The visitor centre is great and when I was there you could both get a beer at the centre and buy a 6-pack to go. Good luck and enjoy it man.
There’s a restaurant at the other side of the road, also from the monks. You can get all the different beers there with your food and there’s a little shop where you can buy six packs. The Westvleeteren blond is my favorite!
If you make it to Leuven, the beers from Domus are really good [https://domusleuven.be/en/](https://domusleuven.be/en/)
I only know about it because when I learned about some monks that train dogs, I got curious about what other hobbies monks get up to. I have an obsession with other people’s hobbies.
If you have the chance to stop for beers in Ireland, please have a Murphy's Stout for me!

Franciscan Well in Cork also has that medieval history you're looking for
Not everyone here is from the US. 
And definitely go do it. Even I, as someone who doesn’t enjoy any alcohol whatsoever, enjoyed this beer so much I requested a second sip. 
Had a 3oz pour of it from a friend who bought online...my 3oz was expensive AF but worth every penny.  I can still taste it when I think about it. 

Listen...YOU put the money in, YOU get the disbursement.  That's it. It's unfathomable to lose a child.  If it was a savings account, you could have spent it years ago.  Where it resides only matter to the government for taxes.  If your son would be laughing his ass off that you actually did it, you're a hell of a dad and absolutely should go.  You deserve every drop of beer instead of tear drops.
The pandemic was crazy. He sounds like a good son who wanted to help the world.

Having money and not being able to spend it on a loved one is a strange feeling. I wanted to do something for my dad but I wasn't sure what to do.

Maybe some sort of forever marker for him. Go on that trip and drink for him and put his photo somewhere. 

Best wishes and thank you for sharing about him.
He sounds like an amazing kid and I’m so sorry life has been this unfair. I love the idea of him looking down on you drinking your beer. NTA and I’ll give your son a toast when I have my next gin.
Well damn, this story already had me choked up but now my eyes are wet.

I'm so sorry for your loss my guy, I can't imagine what you are going through. 

You are going to get through this though, just promise me you will go have those beers, but don't keep drowning your sorrows after. 
Times like these are what makes people into alcoholics, so have a good time in your son's name but also take it easy afterwards. 

I think by now you know that you are doing the right thing by going to have some beers in Belgium and not giving your ex that money.
It will be a worthwhile trip and experience, I love me a occasional Belgium beer when I get a chance to visit the neighbors. (Holland)

Let us know when you get there so we can toast to your son's memory and feel free to ask for any favors you might need while you are here.

Take it easy and give yourself time to heal.

Love and hugs from an internet stranger.
I’m a dad of two girls and I hope my relationship with them is as close as you were to your sons. Godspeed.
Maybe it was all your yeast that inspired his passion for microbiology  😉

The thing I wish the most for you:

That this trip lets his memory brings more joy that he lived than sorrow that he’s gone.
I’m a high school senior this year, I’m going to be attending university to study epidemiology and immunology. When I get to college I’ll do something in his honor, if it’s alright with you.
You raised a really good son and the love you feel for him is very clear. I say pour one out for him, make him proud. ❤️
My nephew is currently working on his doctorate in microbiology. He is a really smart kid as well. Your son sounds like a truly great kid.
I’m so sorry for your loss.  I imagine some of that kind heartedness came from you based on your close relationship. I have a feeling while his life was too short he brought good into the world.
Hey, OP. I’m so sorry for your loss. NTA at all and enjoy the beer. Beer and Microbiology are also very related, so I feel the celebration is on theme. 

If you have some money left after the trip, consider donating it to some cool student with good grades and not enough money that also wants to study microbiology. You know, someone that might help your son’ wishes come true - so no one has to see another covid in the future. 

I’m so sorry.
What is the Habs?
Oh my ❤️. Sending you much comfort from Colorado. He sounded like a fine young man. 
He sounds like a good guy. Imagining you guys kayak like I see my son with my stepdad really got me thinking about how how beautiful those memories must be. Hold on to them; I think you will. Life is so precious, and love is eternal. You will grieve this until your last breath, but the way you choose to grieve will also determine so much. I send you strength, and the notion that from what I’m seeing, so many strangers- want you to also be well.
I promise to think of your son on my first kayak of the season. He sounds like a wonderful soul. I am so sorry for your loss. 

NTA.
I work with microbiologists and fermentation specialists. Just wanted to say that you understanding yeast and loving good beer is likely another reason he had interest in microbiology-- that's how it started for many of my colleagues, at least. It sounds like you had a lovely relationship with your son. I'm so sorry for your loss and I hope you have a good trip. It sounds like the best way to celebrate his life. You're not wasting your money at all.
I’m so sorry that you lost your son so young. I can’t imagine what you are going through but it’s a sweet thing to do in his memory. It’s a shame that he never got to fulfill his dreams.
You are an amazing father.
I feel like when we read these we hear about the end but the most important part is how these beautiful people lived. It's always good to remember that! A beautiful father and son relationship.
While they were in the middle of planning her own son's funeral. That really got me. OP is definitely NTA
Please do so - I'm from West-Flanders, near Kortrijk but can definitely redirect you to other people to help. And as others have said, take the time to explore Europe with your son in mind, Nord-Pas-de-Calais in France is also beautiful in its own way and if you pass through Belgium, I can recommend multiple places next to Ghent, Antwerp, Bruges, ..
Yes. Can I have some of that money? I'm entitled to damages. /S

I'm so sorry for your loss. And I'm really sorry that she had the fucking audacity to approach you about money that way. I can't imagine being that tacky.
NTA. If stepfather always made it clear that he wouldn’t provide your son with anything beyond the basics, then why should you not return the favor? If you think your son would be happy that you did with the money what you always promised, then you should 100% do it. That’s your son’s money, spend it how he believed it ought to be spent.
Not the original commenter but: Lived in Belgium for about half a year, gained 25 pounds (wish I was joking) from the beer and fries alone. Try every kind you can and watch out for the Tripels, they’ll get you with the abv! Don’t forget the fries too. They were worth every pound. 

Enjoy the beer and the memories of your son, op. He sounds like he knew what an amazing father he had. 
Nothing to share, he hasn't tried the beer but he wants to go to Belgium too. Sorry for your loss, hope you get the trip of a lifetime.
Very sorry for your loss. If you’re going to make the beer pilgrimage to Belgium you should add De Garre to your list. It’s only sold at De Garre in Brugge and its lovely. Plus Brugge is a very old and atmospheric city, depending on when you go it can either lift your spirits or be a solemn grey conducive to philosophical beer drinking.
Already a small tip: If you somehow can't get a crate of Westvleteren, or you want to bring more, try the 'Sint-Bernardus abt 12'. It's brewed in the same neighborhood, and uses the same recipe and yeast as Westvleteren. The taste is a bit different when you taste them one after another, but very similar.

Also, it's usually available in most supermarkets. Just be aware that there are different versions of Sint-Bernardus. It's the abt 12 you'd want.
I’m so sorry for your loss.  Obviously NTA.  Honor your son’s memory in the way you need.
I think he's talking about a recurring scholarship through McGill, where son attended
First. Your son sounds like he was amazing and you two had a great bond. My deepest sympathies for your loss.  

Judgement - Completely and totally NTAH. 

Suggestion - If your ex put in 5%, I would suggest you transfer that to her step son. If he is under 21 that can be done with zero penalty.  But you do what you think is best. Completely tacky af to ask the question during funeral planning. 

Also remember, if you have room in your RRSPs you can transfer in.  That might make retirement that much closer and allow you to have more time sooner to take trips to celebrate life with your amazing wife.
That would still make them step siblings, just not OP's step son.
They are not biologically related, but they are step siblings.
They are step siblings, they are not half siblings
That's fine. The transfers are between siblings of the beneficiary not relationship to the parent who opened the resp. So if the child had a half sibling from his mom, that half sibling could get the transfer. But step siblings through marriage can't.
No relation to op but it is his sons stepsibling. 

You may be thinking half sibling but if your parent marries someone with a kid that kid becomes your stepsibling
That’s a step sibling. Just not one that is OP’s child or stepchild. It’s Son’s stepbrother on his mother’s side because it’s his mom’s stepson.
That's the definition of a step sibling, unless I'm not understanding something here.
That's literally the definition of a step sibling
That's what step-siblings are.

You are maybe mistaking it for half-siblings, but those (people with whom you share one parent) are actually, just siblings. It's just that some people specify they're half-siblings because many times they don't have a very close relationship.

Step-siblings are when Jeff, who has a child from a previous relationship named Mike, marries Anne, who has another child from a previous relationship named Amber. Thus, Mike and Amber do not share any (bio)parent. Since Jeff and Anne have married, now Mike is Anne's step-son and Amber's step-brother and Amber has become Jeff's step-daughter and Mike's step-sister.
I mean that's exactly what she's saying so I don't understand the question.
NTA

You don’t owe your ex-wife’s stepson anything, OP. Sorry for your loss. Have that beer in Belgium in memory of your son.
*all of reddit raises a glass* ~ Cheers to you both!
Exactly. We each mourn the people we love in different ways. OP is going to mourn them drinking beer, because that's an amazing memory of his son, always joking about the beer. I've been saving to buy a (very small) diamond pendant because my gran used to say (jokingly and not so much as a joke) that a lady always has to have a diamond pendant. It was her thing, jewelry (she never had money to buy much of it, had maybe 2 pairs of gold earrings but she loved the idea of jewelry), so I'm gonna do that. I might never wear the pendant but that's beyond the point. We each mourn the people we love in ways we think they'd enjoy it.
Exactly. The trip is a great way to honour his son.
Of course it’s all in a 30m cul-de-sac, that’s like 80% of Belgium’s land area 😛
And now I have to plan a trip to Belgium 🍻

NTA, OP. Take the trip you've always dreamed of in honor of your son.
Wait wait wait, you forgot to mention the best part

 The cul-de-sac is named *"L'impasse de la fidélité"* Which translate to *Fidelity's dead end*

As someone from Québec, discovering the spot while celebrating my best friend's breakup from a cheating ex, that was glorious!
Delerium is insane, the beer list is as thick as a phone book, but agreed just ask the bar staff for a recommendation.  They put us onto Straffe Hendrik so of course we had to visit the brewery in Bruges.  Belgium has so many amazing things to see in such a small country, even if you don't like beer.  But if you do like beer, it's heaven on earth.
ALL the urinals are spoken for?  That dude must have really adored his dad.
As a McGill alum please tell me in which building he wanted to name it!
This made me laugh, then cry obnoxious hormonal tears 😂 thank you for that. 

I hope OP sees this!
That is a beautiful tribute. I hope some day I'm cranky but loved enough that someone names a toilet for me.
I miss awards, it's beautiful that you would offer to dedicate something on campus to the memory of OP's son. Thank you so very much for the reminder that people can be kind, unprompted.
/u/Possible_Soil_3886 hoping you see this cool post from /u/ElGato6666 😍 sorry for your loss if your awesome son. 😢😢
I don’t think the new husband is decent at all.  OP’s son was his stepson, and it sounds like he was treating the kid like Harry Potter, just getting the bare minimum.  Then ex-wife has the audacity to demand money for a kid that OP has nothing to do with.  
But even if he did support him. You just don't asked that.
THIS
Don’t forget to send your ex and her new husband, postcards with you or random people drinking beer and an explanatory note updating which breweries you visited. And bring the ex’s stepson back a stein!
Andechser Beer for example (there's another 8) is brewed by monks (with help from not monks) in Germany and you can drink it in a couple of Bavarian restaurants or beer gardens (like and out-door restaurant). If OP or anyone else like some inspiration.


In German, but here's where you get it: https://www.biergartenfreunde.de/biergaerten/tag/brauereien/andechser/
EX wife.   Not even a kid that has lived in his house.   The audacity.   I cannot even.
NTA - Asking me while making the funeral arrangements would annoy me pretty seriously - kind of vulture-like.

I'm so sorry for the loss of your son, he sounds like a great guy.
might wanna edit ur comment bc it’s his ex wife!
Something even simpler and more direct OP can tell his ex-wife.

“No.”

No need to elaborate further.
OP, please go to ‘t Brugs Beertje in Bruges. I think it’s the kind of place you and your son would love. ❤️
He enjoyed a Victoria Pale Bitter before. I did as well. 
You get the money back that you put in and the government takes bake the money they add. 

I am paying 2k a year and the government adds 500 a year. Mine is in mutual funds so the dividends get reinvested. I think they said we would be at about 75 to 80k once my child is ready for post secondary school. 

Some people invest more than that, some less. 

My husband always always if she doesn't want to go to post secondary, we would use the money to take a basket weaving course someplace in the world and enjoy ourselves.
Well “pouring one out for your homies” is a pretty common thing, just funny that it’s an ancient ritual from multiple cultures
This! My parents both had messy estates/end of life situations to deal with and now have a "death binder" where literally everything is thought of and planned out. It has notes of where and how to find anything my siblings and I might need. Future executors have had the tough conversations about what they want (mom is pro hospice as soon as she becomes a time/money burden at all, dad would prefer we hold out for a miracle recovery much longer). There's powers of attorney, detailed wills, funeral arrangements, their obits (with instructions of how to add potential unborn family), life insurance policies, beneficiaries on anything, just everything. We've been talked to about how/why which sibling was picked for what. Theyve also talked about how it's ok if their stuff doesn't end up perfectly as they have it planned and they just want us to be ok with whatever happens, and to pick what's better for the living if any unforseen choices/obstacles come up.

It was a ton of work for them, but it's such a gift knowing I won't have to be saddled with grief *and* simultaneously trying to guess at what they wanted.
Reddit can be good sometimes. ☺️
Also from Belgium and would love to to keep company if you don’t want to be alone here!
You are awesome!!
Have fun you two. Hopefully this works out!!
It's 10am and I'm crying. This is so beautiful.
And this is why I like Belgians! I haven't met a single one that isn't good people.
I'm not from Belgium, so I can't join - but I'm having a vision of dozens of Belgian Redditors meeting up with this man and throwing a joyous celebration of life for his son! Make it happen, Reddit! I'll cheer you on from the other side of the pond.
This is the way. If you and /u/op meet up please send us Venmo information. I’ll buy you guys a case. This is how we help each other!
I’m not a big beer person but I’ll certainly raise a glass of wine or a gin and tonic
I'm going to stash a Belgian beer in my cabinet for when we hear back.
Thinking we should start a zoom call for all to join. Dad tells his favorite stories about his son while drinking a beer in Belgium.
Cheers!
Ho man that's an excellent idea.

OP if you come down to have a Chimay green by the Abbey, i'll have one there with you !
+1
Count me in as well.
Me too!
Count me in, too. I have a lambic I've been saving for a rainy day, I'll crack it open to your health and in honor of your son.
Count me in, I’d love to raise a glass in your son’s honour.  I’m so sorry for your family’s loss. It sounds like the absolute perfect use of the money to me. 🍻
Yes!
I want to join this too
He said Belgian monks, not German Monks! BUT... if you're going to Germany, it's hard to find bad beer there, I tried, was unsuccessful.
Belgium beer is the best and each city has it's own brew.  And no hangovers.  

Don't forget to order frites...they are far superior to American fries.  And they have 30+ kinds of dipping sauces. 

I also brought 22 boxes of Belgian chocolates back for gifts. 

I was in heaven. 😁😎
this is a good idea, a good way to coordinate the toast.
I went on a rugby tour there 23 years ago. I love your fine country. And the advice I got to not kiss the Blarney Stone. 
That would be excellent. 
My cousin lives in Bilbao and has offered me her car for my trip. 
Your hobby is researching others hobbies 😂
Op isn’t from the us either 😂🤦‍♀️
And being in the US *doesn’t mean they don’t know about it,* either.
OP isn't either?
I’m from the US, and know about it. What was the point of this comment? OP isn’t even from the US?
Even us people in the US can appreciate good beer, no matter where in the world it comes from.
The US has huge amounts of Belgian beer in many liquor stores. Americans also travel.  It’s not like Americans don’t know about beer. 

Also, OP clearly says he’s from Canada. Canada isn’t in the US.
I love the idea of having his photo! Take him with you, even just in gesture, OP.
I love this. He sounds amazing.
Well, as soon as I knockoff work I'll hoist one for your lad. Seems like he was a good kid
I remember teaching him how to make his own sourdough starter. I still have his and I will use it forever I think.
That is amazing. Thank you.
Nickname for The Montreal Canadiens. The hockey team we cheer for.
He was a great kid. He was shaping up to be a great man. 
Thank you for being the kind of person who asks these questions--truly a way for people to keep living on in the lives of others, some of whom were never personally known.
this 100%
My son and I laughed our asses off at a movie called In Bruges. Is that the place? 
Thank you. I appreciate the tip.
It was my folks, her parents, and cash birthday and Christmas gifts from when he was little. She never put in money. That doesn't in any way minimize the fact that without my ex our lifestyle would have been impossible. 
So it's ridiculous that she's asking for money that he saved himself for a kid that's not his, and even more ridiculous because the kid is not even related to his son, and the kid has a living bio mum and dad of his own
Biologically, siblings share two parents, half-siblings one. The difference is more than just how close they feel.
Why would he give his ex wife’s son any money under any conditions?
I totally agree.  You should never have been asked for that money.  That was totally out of line. Please spend that  money to find joy in this world through your sadness.
Totally agree.  
Very sorry for your loss OP.  
Hope you will enjoy your trip, I am sure your son would want you to do that.
Quite frankly I’m surprised that she has the audacity to even mention it.
Bring back a keg for the stepson, don't be a complete dick about it :P
*Raises glass \~* Cheers.  Safe Travels
Hell yeah!

A toast to a life lost but a promise kept. 😉
🍻🍺🙏
Cheers! Not the Asshole. Not by a longshot. Have a safe trip and enjoy that beer with your son's spirit!
I cheers to that too. It sounds like a perfect way to honour your son’s memory 🍺
🍻
NTA for all the reasons everyone here points out.  I hope toasting your son's memory (and silently mentally blasting the bastard who took him) helps you heal.
My best friend passed when I was 25. She always had the most outlandish, fantastic sense of style. For her funeral, we all dressed in our most ridiculous fake furs, loud accessories and shoes. A few of the older folks there thought it was wildly inappropriate, but we found great comfort in sending her off in a way I know would’ve made her chuckle. 

You’re very right- we all grieve and honor memory in unique ways. I hope you enjoy your pendant!
This is lovely. When my grandmother passed, she had outlived my grandfather by 20 years. She didn’t have much money left, but she was always dressed in her best at all times and loved costume jewelry even if it was from the thrift store. I was the only granddaughter, so she loved to buy me dresses and dress me up. When she passed, she left the grandkids all the money she had left, which equated to about $1000 split between us. I held on to that $1000 for years because I had a plan for it. It was the money I used to buy my wedding dress. She wouldn’t be there for it, but it was my way of letting her dress me up one last time.
True, but the really special thing about this awesomely weird pocket sized country is DIY fun, there's no set formula for how to do it. You can meet anyone from everywhere while doing so. Most people you run into speak 3 or more languages.

As far as the nightlife is concerned , you can be a beer drinker, a Rhum drinker, a cigar , cigarette, or blunt smoker, vaper, hookah-head, schnapps aficionado, cava or wine connoisseur, even teetotalers-there is a venue for everyone. If you like dancing, people watching,...even if you and your partner are swingers, or  perhaps you're seeking company for the night 👀(Rue d'Aerschot) , you'll find what you're looking for here.

Restaurants range from traditional Belgian cuisine, French, Italian, Japanese, Congolese, Guinean, Senegalese,  Black American (Dooley's, Brussels), British, South Korean even Hmong and Uyghur, Halal(mostly Moroccan) and Kosher to name but a handful.

We have clubs, concert venues (Ancienne Belgique,  La Madeleine, Foret etc)  lounges, terraces, rooftops, converted warehouses and cathedrals (Spirito, Ixelles), bars where you can swing on a swing indoors while drinking (Roi des Belges, Brussels) man made beaches (Bruxelles les Bains) and pools, parks, palaces, churches, mosques, synagogues, monuments  museums, art galleries,  walking  and biking routes (you can rent a bike for 3.50 EUR a month in Brussels) and botanical gardens built around a concert venue for indie acts. A roller skating rink just opened and it's styled like the ones in Atlanta, Georgia. If you like the outdoors, you can go to the Ardennes, Hallerbos (the bluebell carpet forest with Giant Sequoias) or the Sonian Forest, to name but a few forests and hiking spots in this country.

We have Couleur Cafe(Tour et Taxis), Les Ardentes, Reggae Geel, which is one of the biggest open air Reggae Festivals in Europe. We have Rock Werchter and of course, the world famous, instantly sold out Tomorrowland.

You don't even have to stay in Brussels and because Belgium is so small, you can go to Ghent, Leuven, Bruges(like in the movie), Antwerpen, Liege, Charleroi and beyond from Brussels by train in a relatively short amount of time. We have sleeper trains to Vienna, Paris, Berlin, so you're well connected to the rest of Europe.

So yes small, but mighty.

Thank you/Bedankt/Merci/Danke schön 😛
Ohhkay, they're all spoken for...what about the bathrooms themselves? Drinking fountains?
*Brewed by monks with help from not-monks...*

I like that! Can't explain exactly why, but I like that...!
>I was dealing with the funeral arrangements and everything when my ex came to talk to me about his money. She knew he had a scholarship and was just going to use the money for living expenses and an emergency fund. She asked me what I was going to do with it.

Man she didn't wait very long to think about using the money for someone else.....
Yeah I was skimming so I thought it was HIS stepson and even then I was like no way ma’am and why are you asking NOW. NTA
[deleted]
Thanks! I meant to, but must've typo'd weird.
Right, the fucking gall of his ex!!  I could never ask someone who lost a child for money originally entitled for them. Makes me incensed thinking bout it!
> Asking me while making the funeral arrangements

JFC i somehow missed that part. how the hell is his own mother thinking about trying to get her hands on her recently deceased child's $ at that point? damn that woman is ice cold.

OP i am so sorry for the loss of your son. you need to do anything & everything possible to help get you thru this, and beers in belguim sounds like a good start. you are most certainly NTA.

btw: i became a widow a few years ago & can tell you with certainty that you are gonna experience a tsunami of emotions trying to come to terms with your son's death. go easy on yourself. there is no one 'right' way to grieve. you do you.
Right? At the funeral of your shared son's death is very tacky. Just...gross all around.

The funeral is never the time to talk about money. Have your moment, have your grief, and be supportive. To bring up the stepson's money situation gives the feeling of "Oh well, that one's gone. Moving on to the next child!!"
Didn’t consider that. That is pretty opportunistic. Let the soil on the grave atleast settle before asking for cash.
Thanks! I meant to say ex-wife, but guess I typo'd
I’m not sure if the government portion could be used for the stepson. When we opened our kids’ RESP account, it was in both their names in a joint account. This allows either of them to use it. But if the stepson wasn’t on the original account, I’m not sure whether he could access the government funds.
You also get to keep the growth in the value of the RESP - growth that came from investing it in stocks, mutual funds or GICs.  You have to pay tax on the growth if you take it out and don't use it for educational purposes, but at least it is not all lost.

RESP Summary:

Student goes to college/university/trade school:  All funds can be used to pay school expenses.

Student does not go to further education/does not use RESP:  Original contributions returned to parent tax-free, government grants go back to government and growth goes to parent but it is taxed as income.  (Note:  I use the term parent but RESPs can be set up by relatives like grandparents too).
Seriously. Some of these replies are making me tear up fr. These wholesome responses to such an incredibly tragic post are everything
This is classic Reddit vibe circa 2010
Yesssss!!!!
I'm here to read such posts and comments. Y'all too wholesome! Sending love to all of y'all!
I'm not from Belgium, so I can't join - but I'm having a vision of dozens of Belgian Redditors meeting up with this man and throwing a joyous celebration of life for his son! Make it happen, Reddit! I'll cheer you on from the other side of the pond.
Oh believe me there are plenty😅. But luckily a lot of them know what shame is and when to shut up.
I make a nice strawberry daiquiri. I’ll be there.
So sorry for your loss, NTA, and I too would have a virtual drink with you and cheers your beautiful boy.
In the comments OP mentioned the brewery is Westvleteren. It is a long trip between those two breweries, but coming if already traveling from North America, it may be worth it.
>  And no hangovers

As someone who has had a hangover from belgium beer - I disagree
https://www.trappistwestvleteren.be/nl/bierverkoop it is on this website you can book the slots for getting the beer. It is a lot easier then before when you had to call the monks 😅
I offer my car if needed I live about two hours from there. I lost my son as well almost 3 years ago and if I can help you with this I'll gladly do it. I'll make the drive.
Bilbao to Flanders is quite a drive (about 13 hours without stops). If you want to do it in two days, Tours, France, is a charming town about halfway there. If you want to do it in 3, you could stop in Angoulême, La Rochelle, or Poitiers, then near Paris, e.g., Amiens (or in Paris, but I *hate* driving in Paris, more than I hate driving in Boston or Manhattan).

Sorry about your son. Enjoy celebrating his memory!
Bilbao is far from Belgium. It's around 1000 km but it's all highway through France so it's fairly easy but expensive.

Belgian is a paradise for the beer lovers. Westvleteren is legendary but there are many other trappisten to try. 

On your question NTA. I wish you the best trip in remembrance of your son
I actually want to write a book about people and their hobbies. Kind of like a People of New York thing, but getting to know people through their hobbies and learning about the hobby itself. I doubt anyone would read it though.
As someone coming from Belgium: it's not enough though. 
What is considered "huge amounts" here, is a pretty small selection of what you can get back there. 

Not to mention that AbInbev seems to have breweries in the US and they brew things like their Stella here. 
While definitely good, it doesn't taste the same. The groundwater in regions that breweries start off with to brew the beer, makes a real difference in the end product. And I don't think they import their water from Leuven. ;)
I like the idea of him putting up at the bars he'll be visiting, in honor of his son.
This! Get a few photos printed and cut his shape out and take some photos "with" him. Especially if OP can duplicate stuff like the standing-in-hand type photos.
You’re making me cry 😭
So much of him will live on in all you shared  ❤️  I know it’s only a shadow of what you’ve lost but I really hope there’s some eventual solace and comfort in all these little things.  My Jewish friends say: “May his memory he a blessing.”  It sounds like that’s truly fitting for your boy.
I like this sub for the drama, but when it comes to loss I want to make sure people know that telling stories about the ones we love is how they go on, in a way. They aren't gone when we talk about the way they laugh or that one road trip or that song that always reminded them of you.
Same place - I used the Flemish spelling. Definitely go see it if you loved the movie.
Yep it is!
Omg that movie is amazing. My dad saw it in the theater when it came out, and he said "it's not playing many places, you have to go see it. If you don't go see it in the theater you're an idiot." And I was like, well shit, it sounds like I'd better go see it." 
You sound like a really great dad. I was reading your post in the kitchen and I had to grasp the counter when I got to how your son passed. I'm so, so sorry. 
"Tis a fearful thing, to love what death can touch."
I think your son would be really proud of you to go on this trip. I hope you enjoy it.
Yeah man. Give her the rough proportion you didn't put in... the proportion from her folks. And maybe your folks (but that's up to you). 

That way you can have a clean conscience. Only spend the money you yourself directly put in. Get everyone else's permission if possible, or return if not.
I would suggest you pay back that 5% (from her parents and the cash bdays etc) to your ex wife and take the rest to get drunk on Belgium with your current wife. This is so they have no reason to say you “took her/your son’s money” .
In any case, NTA to me.
It's completely out of line. Delusional that OP would give money to what is basically a random stranger. OP needs to go remember his son by drinking all the delicious Belgian beer.
You know I have siblings, to whom I share one parent and to whom I share both parents and step-siblings so I've spent a few years having to use a dictionary to explain to people why I called my "half-siblings" just "siblings". I did that because I was in fat closer to my "half-sister" than to my brother and both of us found it offensive that people that hadn't even opened a dictionary corrected us (which have to say use to happen much more when I was a child...). In the end, I ended up printing the definition of "sibling" from various disctionaries.

Well, I did that in Catalan and Spanish... Now, I get to do this all over again in English!

From the Oxford dictionary:
"sibling, n.
Originally Genetics. Each of two or more children or individuals having at least one parent in common; a brother or a sister. Cf. sib, n.² B.5."

From Webster's New World College Dictionary:
"sibling
in American English
(ˈsɪblɪŋ)
NOUN
one of two or more persons born of the same parents or, sometimes, having one parent in common; brother or sister"

From the Britannica Dictionary:
"sibling 
/ˈsɪblɪŋ/
noun
plural siblings
[count] formal
: a brother or sister"

So we need to know how they define "brother" and "sister"
"brother 
/ˈbrʌðɚ/
noun
plural brothers
[count]
1 
: a boy or man who has one or both of the same parents as you"

"sister 
/ˈsɪstɚ/
noun
plural sisters
1 
[count] : a girl or woman who has one or both of the same parents as you"

From the Wikipedia:
"A sibling is a relative that shares at least one parent with the other person. A male sibling is a brother, and a female sibling is a sister. Somebody with no siblings is an only child."

The fact that medically it can be relevant, or that some people, because of how close they feel to them (or because they have uneducated parents that never let them know they are siblings), decide to call their siblings "half-siblings" (when in that case, they should call the others "full-siblings" not just "siblings" but whatev), doesn't change that siblings means sharing AT LEAST ONE PARENT.

Have a nice day.
especially while he was dealing with funeral arrangements. this is also the mother of thw deceased child too so instead of mourning her son she is acting like a damn vulture
Agreed 1000%
Can’t say I was shocked when I read that bit though to be honest
Nah. He can drink domestic. The stepdad probably wouldn't.
I bet your friend absolutely would have appreciated that, too. My friend's parents got her a coffin absolutely covered in red glitter. She would have obsessed over the thought of four middle-aged white men in formal suits covered in sparkly red glitter ✨️
I got wanderlust just reading this. Belgium has to be my next stop. Thank you for describing the country in such wonderful detail!


P.S. Neuhaus chocolate is the best chocolate in the world! (Yay Belgium!)
You officially just made me move Belgium to the top of my travel list! 🥰 If you don’t already, you should work for their tourism department.
I'm just poking fun - I'm Australian, we're one of the largest countries on the planet... but also largely uninhabited, mostly because of that whole desert in the middle thing.
Proper “bed still warm” behaviour 🤢 how can someone’s mind work in this way? Can u you imagine?  what’s he doing with his PC? What size of feet was he? Is there any days left on his bus pass? Get in the fucking bin if ur not there to help that grieving parent grieve!
This is supposed to be the mother??!!??. That is so out of bounds of what a grieving parent should be worried about. When my son died, my brain was mush, and yet, this lady is worried about money
That is so tacky of her, my god. I know people grieve in different ways, but imagine this just happening and still being in the headspace to try and grift his money for your stepson, just wtf.
I read the post, but that part didn’t click for me for some reason. Thank you for pointing it out. 

Also, WTAF? The (metaphorical) balls on this woman! *Her son just died* and she’s worried about her stepson’s college fund? What kind of parent thinks like that? 

Again, WTAF?!

NTA, OP. I’m so sorry for your loss and I’m sorry your ex is absolutely filled to the brim with audacity. What a cold, inhuman response. 

Go to Belgium. Drink the monk-made beer. Remember your son. Grieve. Spend every penny of that fund while you’re there. You could try a luxury hotel, a Michelin star restaurant, whatever sparks an interest. 

If high-end stuff isn’t your thing, you could do a taste test of their waffles and/or chocolates. (Okay the chocolate thing might be my dream and not yours, but you get the point.) 

And, if he was the only child you had with your ex, then there’s no need to communicate with Mrs. Greedypants ever again, so that’s a tiny sliver lining. 

Be safe on your trip, OP. Please know you (but not your ex) have our deepest sympathies.
I wonder how much the ex contributed to the funeral costs?
That struck me too.  Your son hasn't even been buried, you are grieving terribly, and she's scavenging his corpse.  Wow, she has a lot of empathy for you, doesn't she?
OP might have wanted to use the money he saved for HIS OWN emergency fund. 
Why would she think he would just give it away? 🤷🏽‍♂️
Yeah I thought that too
I don’t like to think the worst of people but with how quickly she moved I can’t help thinking she was already eyeing that money before her son died. The fact he had a scholarship and was ‘just’ going to use the money for living expenses I can imagine she was planning on persuading him to reduce his expenses so he could help his ‘brother’ who wasn’t as lucky as him.
The stepson belonging to the ex was a plot twist was on par with Bruce Willis's character's reveal at the end of The Sixth Sense. Mind BLOWN! 

And, obviously, NTA.
The math only works for the shameless ex who wants money that OP saved after the divorce.

Let's say it's X money that OP saved, and government added Y money, she wants to have X+Y at her disposal even if that leaves OP with zero instead of X. 

How can she ask for that with a straight face?!
I can’t get past the fact that she asked this of him *at all* but also? It was HER SON too. How does a mother who just lost her son even have the space in her head to think, let alone ask, about money?!
Makes me feel like mom could've been prioritizing stepson if she was so fast to ask during funeral prep.
It wasn’t even at the funeral but while he was making arrangements, so like immediately after the fact. Just gross.
Particularly given that this was the mother of the son who was being buried.
Absolutely! Never expected an AITA post to make me teary. 
I kinda think it’s common for Belgian people to offer something like this. All of my friends and a lot of my family would do the same. 

Could also just be the people I surround myself with. Glad it made people feel a little better tho! 

And OP I’m sirious, if you want to hit me up! I don’t drink beer but I’ll keep you company while sipping my Coca Cola!
 Have one on me. Would love to send you for it
Didn’t expect to sob while reading a Reddit post today, but here we are.
10 hour drive to Munich, a bunch of that on the autobahn (thus fun, Nurbrugring is not far off the path) and you'd pass through the Mosel/Rhine valley, so should make a stop for wine (find a random small vintner and do a tasting, I haven't found bad wine there, and they have all been friendly). Then go to Frankfurt, or Heidelberg. I recommend a stop in Rothenburg ob der Tauber, old walled city, very pretty (but I am partial, my parents have had a poster/etching of the crooked house in their house forever). Nuermberg is a good stop as well, not sure if it's there other times, but I've been there when they have a big easter and christmas market. Obviously then there is Munich, with all it's breweries (and Oktoberfest if you time it right). SINCE you're so close, head down to Neuschwanstein, and Garmisch, and if it's summer, Chiemsee is beautiful, can go to Bertchesgarten and Salzburg as well.
North America is a totally different ballgame when it comes to “long trips.” I could drive 6hr to visit Niagara Falls without even leaving my states borders. 

Though even if it wasn’t, a nice road trip through Europe sounds lovely!
As a Belgian who has had a ton of hangovers from our beer.... Yeah.
I have family all over the Basque part of Spain and France. My grandfathers both brought wives back from France after WWII. I will be doing a lot of visiting. 
I came out of Logan on the Friday of Labor Day weekend as my first driving (me at the wheel) experience in the US. And Paris is waaaaaay worse.
A 13 hour roadtrip for a North American is nothing!
I agree with Tours, France. I've been twice and it is just stunning, and so close to so many wineries and chateaus.

I only drink beer when I'm in Europe, OP, and from your short post I think this is exactly how your son would like you to honor him.
I have a lot of family to see there.
Fucking thank you! I had a (half) sibling that I lost due to drugs/suicide when I was younger. And whenever I’ve mentioned his age when people have asked, they also then ask if we are ”real” siblings, because there’s a bit of an age difference. I always say, yes we were real siblings, but we share a father and not a mother. 
For some reason, A LOT of people have brushed my loss of him off as ”not as bad” because he isn’t my ”real” sibling, according to them of course. When I was younger I would just be stunned by their comment and get quiet. But I know now that I’m older, if I hear that shit one more time I will fucking go off. 
We are LITERAL siblings, who share the SAME fucking blood, and the SAME fucking parent! My grief and my relationship with MY BROTHER is just as fucking real as anybody elses with their siblings.
My first thought was SHE ASKED FOR MONEY AT THEIR SON'S FUNERAL??
It is amazing how many people behave like that. Nothing surprises me.
I bet it feels like she just exchanged one kid for the other after that question.
I think in certain families and certain circumstances, using a deceased child's college fund for the other sibling(s) may be appropriate. However, not in this case because the stepdad was very clear about paying for their own bio kids only and it is absolutely inappropriate to ask OP about this WHILE PLANNING A FUNERAL and then calling him SELFISH WHILE PLANNING HIS CHILD'S FUNERAL.
I would be willing to bet that the ex-wife's husband insisted that she ask for this college fund for his own son.  This smacks of that.
U summed it up! I think I would've cussed her out.
Greed 1000% (fixed it for you)
You can get a coffin covered in glitter??? I might opt for a coffin over cremation....or maybe just have my kids mix glitter in with my ashes! Ooh I'm excited at the prospects. I'm sorry about your friend, but thank you, truly, for the idea!
Neuhaus is lovely, they have an nice boutique close to the European Parliament (also somewhere you can visit). You can also get Leonidas chocolates for more or less the same price.   
Also smaller chocolatiers like Centho and Laurent Gerbaud are worth trying as well.   
Pierre Marcolini and Paul's have lovely macaroons that will just melt in your mouth. A little pricey but nice for the occasional treat.   
And of course, Godiva Chocolatier, is king. Really expensive but worth it for the right person/occasion.

You can also make your own chocolates at a chocolate making workshop/atelier at any of the dozens of chocolate workshops here too. Its DIY fun and rather delicious.  

All this chocolate is waiting for you should you decide to come!
When my beloved aunt died, my cousin (aunt's niece too) immediately asked my aunt's son if he had the rest of her pain Rx. Then my mom's little sister approached him about earrings that had been my grandmother's. He promptly let her know they had been passed down to me years ago.
Agree. The bus pass is beyond cold though 😭
Righttttt!!!
So sorry for your loss
Right?  I barely remember my daughter's funeral.
She started with, "he wasn't going to college anyway" so she has 😁 always been planning on scheming it from him.
Seriously. When my daughter passed, it took me almost 2 weeks to even recall the moment I was told. I had an epiphany a few days after, that all the screaming I was hearing at that time was me. 

26 years later, and I still don't remember doing it, just hearing it. I just logically put two and two together when my brain finally started firing again.
This!
Or her new husband put her up to it and is bugging her about it
She wanted to get her bid in while dad (presumably) wasn’t thinking straight or too deep in his grief to care about the money. What a piece of work.
She was probably considering the potential at the hospital after the accident,  but thought "I'll wait until the funeral planning, that's classier."

NTA, OP, go raise a glass to your wonderful son. I would tell you to raise a glass for each good memory,  but it sounds like the monks would run out before you did. I am very sorry for your loss. 💔🍺
We do indeed.
Another Belgian here and I completely agree! I hope OP takes you up on the offer!
I'd add Zugspitze if going to Garmisch
Damnit, now I want to take that trip!
Königsee is lovely too, though a good bit from Munich (2h). But not that far from Salzburg, Austria (30 min). From Munich it isn't far into Austria either if you've got some money left. Salzburg and Innsbruck (great mountain view) are both lovely places. Make it worth it OP (obviously only if you want too).


Oh and great advice btw! Neuschwanstein is a must-go if you're in the area. It's the Disney like Fairy Tale Castle built by King Leopold II (cousin of Empress Sissi). 
Yes! Do that! Don’t just go to Belgium; explore Europe! Take that time for healing. Time is the only thing that helps with grief. I wish I could have that after my mom passed last year.
Come visit Regensburg, Germany for a snack with your beer if you can! We have a little wurst kitchen (*Historische Wurstküche zu Regensburg*) near our bridge that's been open and running since 1146 AD. They make the best wurst in Germany, guarantee!
Stop by Mont Saint Michel on your way north, worth a detour .
This sounds like a grounding soul journey you need to take. All these roots make the NTA stronger
I know; my family used to do non-stop drives from SW Michigan to central Florida, about 20 hours each way. But OP will be going through some of the most beautiful parts of France; it would be a shame to stay on the autoroute the whole way!
I went there last fall and was able to successfully get the beer with a rental car from France. The sign-up for the pick up slot is a week or so ahead of time so you just have to wait until you get there and you can register your rental car for the day you plan to go. I will note that the instructions on the website say you have to enter your plate number but I don’t think we actually did when we processed our order. I just looked at the receipt and there’s no plate number on it. I’m pretty sure the monks weren’t paying attention to that when we were there. They just asked to see the receipt. The far more difficult feat was bringing the beer back to the states. We packed an entire empty suitcase and bubble wrap just for beer and used the giant farm scale at our idyllic Belgian B&B to pack and weigh our luggage to the limit of what’s allowed. I hope you have a good experience and watch out for those crazy house spiders. Sorry for your loss OP.
No, no, you misread...

BEFORE the funeral. While he was making funeral arrangements for THEIR son.

Jesus, OP's ex-wife is a ghoul. Wonder why they split up?
see i understand eventually finding another use for the money.

but god forbid if something happens to my child and  the other parent of my kid approaches me about the money i had saved for him while im still mourning and arranging their funeral....OP was a lot more kind than id ever be..
My kids and I have always joked that we want our ashes mixed with glitter and stuffed into a firework. Really go out with a bang… and thanks to the glitter, one that lasts forever.
She was also cremated. So she's one with the glitter, now at least ✨️
I had one of the best weekends of my life in Brussels, I recommend it to everyone. The chocolate, the food, the architecture, even the atmosphere, it’s an incredible place. Also I don’t think anyone has mentioned the meatballs yet (boulets liegeois) so… MEATBALLS
And Neuhaus have a great outlet shop in the area of Anderlecht.
LOL I did not expect this post to be a stealth promotion for the Belgian tourism commission but you had me at beer, crusty bread, and chocolate :D
Shameless scavengers fr! Sometimes I wonder what life must be like cruising through it with both no sense of shame for yourself combined with no consideration for everyone else
Similar thing happened with me, my grandmother and I were incredibly close, I spent more time in her house than I did my parents house. When she was in early stages of illness she gave me her engagement ring. I'm the youngest grandchild with about 12 older female cousins. As soon as she passed away, the day after, my aunts were scouring the house for her ring, when my decent aunt informed them I had it, all hell broke loose. Nothing like someone dying to bring out greed.
My aunt passed on home hospice after a very painful battle with cancer several years ago. The organization had a very strict rule that a nurse had to come out and destroy all of the leftover meds, and a family member had to witness and sign off. She had some pretty serious stuff, including fentanyl. Her sons weren't up to the task, so asked me to step in. I then, at their request, posted an announcement on FB about her passing. Not even 15 minutes later, a distant cousin from the other side of the family burst in looking for "the stuff." I mean, the body hadn't even been removed yet. He then kept blabbering on about how much he could have sold it for.
Hahaha u get them though. “So sorry for you loss, I recently loaned him $2k I don’t know if he mentioned but…”
Thank you very much.
I'm so sorry for your loss. I'm right there with u. They had to lightly sedate me for the funeral.
I only remember about 5 seconds of my son's funeral also ..I think it's our brains trying to help us through the trauma of losing our children. I'm sorry for your loss.
I agree. It makes what she did much more cold blooded and calculating. It's horrible.
If that’s even true. She can say anything, dead son can’t refute.
>Wonder why they split up?

The world may never know.
This doesn't surprise me after hearing a loved one's (now ex-) wife had asked him about her Christmas present during a phone call to him on Christmas Eve when his father had just passed away - he was in the hospital and she didn't think about going to his side to support him, instead she asked about her Christmas present. And then said she there was a GBP900 necklace that she saw that she wanted. And even after he said they couldn't afford it at that time, she still got it for herself (joint finances so it wasn't a case of her own money, it was their money.)
My siblings, father and I turned my mum's ashes into a clay pigeon target. 
My mum was a crack shot, and she would've got an absolute kick out of the fact we tried her sport, and well, shot the shit out of her. 
None of us know which of us actually got her in the pile of targets, but we know that she would've loved that we went through with it.
There is some good reasoning behind it tho, my dad was promised some of his uncles firearms, but nothing was in writing and he apparently never told his wife so she gave some to his other hunting buddies and sold the rest and because my dad didn't mention it right away he didn't get them.
Naur! Fucking shameless! 

I just noticed your username. I don’t want to know the experience, but it did make me giggle.
Sounds like my EX wife, she may never figure it out. 

The world is indeed a mystery.
True. My grandpa had a lil shelf of hotwheels cars, many still in the box. He said I could have them when he died. Unfortunately for me, extended family moved into their house and I never got those cars. That's not to mention the fact that, after they left, we found cat litter in the air vents, among other things. Some people are just fucking disgusting.
AITA for not giving my sister my wife’s clothes? 
My wife was a corporate lawyer and mediator. She had some very nice work clothes. She was diagnosed with ovarian cancer and was gone in two years. The last six months of her life were hell. 

My sister Sarah didn't do jack shit for us of us during that time. My wife never liked her. I do not like her. She is a selfish cow. 
At my wife’s wake, she started asking about my wife’s clothes, and I brushed her off. She wanted to pick out a few pieces to “remember my wife by,” and I ignored her. 

It's been six months, and I've attended my mom’s birthday, but I’m still not in the mood to deal with people. Then Sarah comes, asking about my wife’s clothes. 

I told her my wife wanted me to donate them to this women's shelter, and she often helped. It will help women in need with their own court cases, court appointments, and job interviews. 

My sister Sarah said my wife was even selfish in death. I asked her what the fuck did she mean? And she started going off on how my wife always thought she was better than her, and it's not far that the clothes are going to charity and not to family. 

I told my sister I would rather see my wife’s clothes lit on fire than on her back. My sister started crying, and my mom came over to see what was wrong. My mom told me to be easy on my sister because she was talking about my wife’s death hard. 

The fucking insanity of that coming out of my mom’s mount made me grab my gift and leave. My mom acts like I had to ruin her birthday by being melodramatic, but I cannot believe their emotional blackmail towards me over fucking clothes that they have no right to. 
Welcome to /r/AmITheAsshole. Please view our [voting guide here](https://www.reddit.com/r/AmItheAsshole/wiki/faq#wiki_what.2019s_with_these_acronyms.3F_what_do_they_mean.3F), and remember to use **only one** judgement in your comment.

OP has offered the following explanation for why they think they might be the asshole:

 > I know it was my mom’s birthday and I was so rude to everyone at it over the clothes

Help keep the sub engaging!

#Don’t downvote assholes!

Do upvote interesting posts!

 [Click Here For Our Rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/AmItheAsshole/about/rules) and [Click Here For Our FAQ](https://www.reddit.com/r/AmItheAsshole/wiki/faq)

##Subreddit Announcements

Follow the link above to learn more

---

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose/?to=/r/AmItheAsshole) if you have any questions or concerns.*

*Contest mode is 1.5 hours long on this post.*
NTA and you're right, Sarah is 100% a selfish cow. Who would begrudge clothes being given to WOMEN IN NEED who are trying to get their lives on track. Sarah, that's who.

And your mom tells you that *Sarah* is taking *your wife's* death hard? Ummm, what?

With family like that, who needs enemies?

I'm sorry you're dealing with this and hope you have people in your circle who treat you a whole lot better.

I'm sorry for your loss.
NTA. Besides the fact that you are following your wife's wishes, your sister is acting like a vulture. And why is your mother worrying about your sister taking your wife's death hard when you were the one who lost their wife?

So, no, you are doing nothing wrong. You are still grieving, your sister is treating you like a thrift store, and your mother is completely ignoring your grief because another family member is better at being dramatic.
NTA. 


It's your wife. How dare Sarah mention it at the funeral. Entirely selfish and classless and callous to your pain. And then to bring it up again and say it's to remember your wife by!!! She doesn't care about your wife and never did. And then to insult your deceased wife by calling her selfish...


Your mom is also a problem. Sarah is having a hard time with your wife's death? Really? Not you, the husband? 


I'm sorry but your sister and your mom suck. You should reevaluate why they're in your life and if they deserve to be. 
[removed]
[deleted]
NTA, your sister and mother are unhinged if they think anything they said is in any way appropriate.  

I'm sorry about your wife's death and I'm sorry your family sucks.  Might be time to go LC/NC.
NTA.  Your sister is being manipulative, though it's hard to see if her behavior is driven by jealousy or pure greed.  I'd be willing to bet she just wants to find any expensive pieces to sell on Poshmark or something.  Sounds like your mother is suffering from some sort of Stockholm syndrome dealing with your sister.  I'm sorry this is what your relationship with your family looks like.
Does your mom or sister have access to your house when you are not there. If they do, get the keys back.
NTA.


WHAT?  Is Mom taking some really hard drugs for that statement?, cause that was just down right fucking dumb your sister isn't the one who was married to your belated wife. Sorry for the loss sir.
Your sister is a selfish cow, and is about as subtle as a fart in church.  NTA.
NTA

wtf
 You should be easy on your sister.. although you were the one losing a loved one? Your family is crazy and insensitive.

I am so sorry for your loss.
Before you said it, I thought I would burn the clothes before I would give them to your sister.  I think you need a break from them.  They are not healthy to be around.  It is not good for you or your kids.  I am disappointed in your mother.   You not ruin her birthday.  And even if you did, so what?  She is not a child.  Ruined birthday vs deceased wife and mother.   I know which I would pick.
NTA, and I’m sorry for your loss.
Your sister is a massive AH and I'd put my foot on the gas about making sure she knew that.  Your mom is bordering on AH if she's gonna take her side.  Don't you dare give her a damn thing. 

Asking about her clothes at her wake?  Are you fucking kidding me?  I'd tell her she should've been the one in the casket if this was a fair world.  But I'm very passionate and protective about those I love most.
NTA.  WTF!  Who approaches a man at his wife’s wake to ask about her clothes?  A selfish cow.  When you’re ready, donate the clothes to the women’s shelter.  They will appreciate them so much more than your sister.

You need to distance yourself from your mom and go NC with the selfish cow.

Sorry for your loss.
>My sister Sarah said my wife was even selfish in death

Ah yes, giving to those in need is super duper selfish. If she thinks so poorly of your wife, why would she want something to remember her by??

>My mom told me to be easy on my sister because she was talking about my wife’s death hard. 

She called your wife selfish and snooty. That's not how you speak about someone you're mourning over.

Fucking vultures. NTA
NTA, I would go full NC after that stunt, and I never suggest that on here. Your sister only cares about herself. You lost your wife and she's telling you to go against your late wife's wishes to give her selfish ass her clothes. My dad didn't even have any specific wishes for his clothes but I still wouldn't give them to a rando who didn't even like him. I kept some and donated what I didn't want to keep. Would it not feel very weird to see your sister in your wife's clothes??? Ask your sister why she's so intent on looking like your wife, because it's creepy.
Ask your sister if you can have her clothes when she's dead.

You know, to remember her by.

NTA
NTA. I would not talk to my mum after that, just wait until they call you.
Holy god your sister sucks. NTA. Your sister was not taking your wife’s death hard; your mom is an appeaser and not a believable fibber. Walk away and have little contact with your sister until she can find some other persons clothes to steal and sell.
NTA…full disclosure I’d burn them too if it came down to that!
Your mother and sister are assholes who do not care about you losing your wife to cancer and the grief you are going through. Your selfish asshole sister only cares about what she can get out of the dead woman she judged and hated. Your mother clearly favours and enables your narcissistic self absorbed sister. Your sister does not deserve your wife’s clothes. NTA
 *I would rather see my wife’s clothes lit on fire than on her back.*

Theoretically, you could have both. (just joking)
NTA
I feel for you, lost my dad to cancer four months ago. It’s incredibly hard.
And I was about to kill someone, who tried to go through his things, after I told not to do that.
NTA! Your sister didn’t deserve her clothes
What an entitled person! NTA!
NTA giving them to a woman's shelter like that is an amazing gesture and honoring what she wanted.
I can just see your wife smiling and saying he has my back!! I’m sure she would have been proud of your reaction!! My condolences to you,,
Hi OP NTA

I'm so sorry for your loss and hope one day the pain is not so raw.

Your sister is a piece of work, but after reading what your mother said I think we know where your sister gets the audacity to act this way.

First of all, regardless of whether you like each other or not, family is family.  Your sister should have done something for you and your wife while fighting this battle.

Second, I admire your restraint at not slapping your sister at the funeral - beyond disgusting behavior.  Then again, she seems to be consistent.

Third, approaching you at any time, but just at 6 months after losing your wife is again another display of horrid behavior.

Your mother backing her?  Well I guess we know who the golden child is!  I am so sorry. Your mother and sister ruined your mother's birthday.  Good for you for walking out and taking the gift - let them have each other.

You deserve to be loved unconditionally by your family, I am sorry they are not there for you.

Stay away from them, maybe one group text or FB message if you use it - just say you are disappointed that your sister has been asking you for your wife's clothes since the day of the funeral and has called your wife a selfish bitch in death because she selected a charity for her clothes before she passed away - may we all be as selfish as your wife.  Include that it is unfortunate that mother is supporting this criticism of your wife and trying to blame you for ruining her birthday.  Since they can't act like decent human beings with a shred of moral compass you are taking a break from them and will not be in their presence, talk with them or be with any friends or family that want to talk about and support them.  You are only accepting kindness in your life.

Leave them on blast and move on, you deserve better.  Your true friends and family that care about you have already shown their colors while your wife was ill and when she passed away.  You know who is reliable and trustworthy, stay close to them and away from others.

Don't defend yourself to anybody.

You mother and sister attacked your wife's character because you will not give your sister your late wife's belongings. WTF?

Donate when ready, in my family I've seen people need 3+ years before being ready to let go of belongings.  When you are ready you will be ready, absolutely nobody should be talking to you about it beyond telling you if you need any help with anything around the house let them know.

Scorched earth to your mom and sister, they earned it.
NTA. I’m sorry for your loss. The clothes will carry on your wife’s legacy by helping others.
NTA- I’m sorry WHAT?!  Your mom is sick. Where does she get the audacity to tell you to go easy on your sister because YOUR WIFE DIED ¡¿HUHHH?! Why on earth would your sister think she’s entitled to your wife’s clothes?  Your mom doesn’t care about your feelings and neither does your sister. This is literally one of the hardest things you will ever have to live though, i’m sorry your family isn’t there for you like you deserve. 

Your sister has no right demanding to have your late wife’s clothes after all the disrespect. You have no obligation to give into your sister’s delusions. Your wife was wonderful for wanting to donate her clothes and help out woman in need, amazing her last wishes had such noble intentions. Even in her last moments a selfless, and caring woman. My deepest condolences🫶💐
NTA.  First, I am very sorry for your loss.   Regarding your post, your sister and mother sound mean spirited and toxic.  The less time you spend being exposed to them the better off you will likely be.
I’m sorry, your SISTER is taking your death hard. What about you? for Pete’s sake! Not the asshole
NTA and I’d be done with my mum and my sister, your mum is the reason your sister is the way she is, clearly, so neither of them is ever going to think they’ve done wrong because they’re martyrs. That’s why your wife dying is such a problem, because they cannot “compete” with her anymore, so they’re pulling this garbage. It’s fucking gross. They’re trying to one up a dead woman and I’d tell them to go fuck themselves and be done with them.
My MIL died of ovarian cancer in less than a year after diagnosis. Cancer fucking sucks. I am so so sorry for your loss. You have the right to do whatever you want with your wife's belongings. Don't let anyone guilt you into anything you don't want to do. Your sister is selfish and cruel. I'd separate myself from that toxic family shit. Take care of yourself.  NTA
NTA I am wondering why a SIL of a woman is allowed to take death hard but the husband of the same woman is suppose to use kid gloves. Toss up who is the bigger AH sister or mom
NTA.  

If you've ever watched the movie Ever After and cheered when Danielle finally broke and punched Marguerite for insulting her dead mother, it's the same kind of feeling I got when reading this post.  You probably could have written that you slapped her and I would have been on your side.  

I vote that you call your sister Marguerite and your mother Rodmilla from now on and watch the movie until you can quote it effortlessly at them.
NTA! Your sister is cold, rude and entitled and your mom’s response is a hint as to how she got that way. Also, I’m very sorry for your loss.
Why do the parents always take the bad siblings side?  I’d never do that to my kids. It’s your wife who died. No one can take it harder than you. Don’t ever let your sister in your house. She doesn’t deserve your wife’s clothes. Stand firm. You did the right thing.
I continue to be appalled at the inconsiderate, insensitive gall of some people. 

I'm not fond of going no contact at first offense but your sister is absolutely shameless and was disgusting to mention clothes at your wife's FUNERAL. That she continues to talk about your wife's clothing is disgusting.  She didn't bring a meal, offer to vacuum while your wife was at treatment, or drop off the dry cleaning during your wife's traumatic illness. I'm pretty sure she didn't make her favorite cookies or bring a pot of carnations. I don't suppose your mom came over and pulled the weeds out of the flower bed or even planted pretty flowers to give your wife a little joy when she looked out the window?  Did she make YOUR favorite Sunday pot roast while you were by your wife's bed during Hospice? 

I'd be no contact with my shameless sister.  I won't call her a cow because cows are prettier and much nicer than she will ever be. As far as your mother, she's officially on probation.  Any mention of your wife or shameless sister is grounds for an immediate hang up.  If she continues?  I'd add her to the Make My Life Simple and Peaceful Again List. 

There are bereavement groups at most large churches, synagogues, temples, and hospitals. They even have them for young spouses versus older ones and special ones for people who have lost babies and others for those who lost children or even adult children. Please seek out some kind people. Close the door to those disturb your peace of mind. Turn off the phone or send them straight to voicemail.  These choices can be temporary or forever.  Only you can decide.

I'm so very sorry for the loss of your wife.  Praying that you find a few good supportive people with no ugly agendas.
NTA "oh yeah mom, SHE's taking my wife's death hard? SHE IS? Not me, the widower? fuck off!!!"
NTA. Your sister sounds incredibly narcissistic. I wonder, though, if your mom actually believes what she said. Some narcissists are incredibly skilled about manipulating certain people in their lives and getting them to buy into their "victimhood" while showing their true colors as bullies to other people. If your mom is otherwise a reasonable and caring person, maybe she has been manipulated in this way.
NTA.  Me I might have taken some fiber glass and rubbed it inside an outfit and gave it to her!
NTA. I can’t imagine how I would have reacted if someone started housing me about my loved one’s clothes *at their funeral.*

Your sister and mom are incredibly obtuse.
“She said my wife was selfish even in death: she said my wife always thought she was better than her” no, she didn’t just think that, she knew that, and your wife was and is not selfish for having wanted her clothes donated to women in need, that is the exact opposite of selfishness.  It is beyond trashy to not assist someone with a terminally ill loved one and then harass them for that then deceased loved one’s clothes.  Screw your sister, you have every right to be upset at her, she does not find talking about your death wife hard, that is a load of bullshit because here she is demanding your wife’s clothes that neither of you want/wanted to see on your sister.  Good on you for taking back your gift and leaving, OP.  NTA.
WOW your family sucks

I am sorry you lost your lovely wife and have these jackals to deal with

NTA - not even a teeny tiny bit
NTA
NTA  When you are ready then honoring your wife's wishes is what's important no matter what anyone thinks. Sister and mom are the selfish entitled ones and deserve nothing that belonged to your wife. Helping those your wife also helped in life can not only help you heal but will honor wife's memory more than anything else.
Wow.. sounds to me like your whole family is completely tone deaf and unsympathetic to your grief. Good luck sir. Sorry for your loss and I hope you can forge ahead and leave your family to themselves.
this may be a stretch, but when I read this post I thought of the movie "Million Dollar Baby", when the lead characters family comes sniffing around for a hand out after she has money, while previously ignoring her.  You are NTAH, and I hope you stick to your guns.
Your mother is treating you terribly. I’m glad you took the gift and left right away.
NTA.

I am so terribly sorry for your loss and that you have to deal with that.

Follow your late wife's wishes and donate the clothing to those in need. That way the clothes are in a way better use. Your sister can go buy her own stuff.
NTA.

OP, I'm sorry for your loss. Your wife sounds like she was one heck of a woman, even from the little that we can understand through your post here - her wish to have you donate her clothes to a women's shelter is a tremendous gift that will help so many people out in dark moments in their life. I am sorry that this goodness for others comes at the cost of your loss.

Your sister can go pound sand. Your mother can pound sand for taking your sister's side. Full stop - you are not wrong for following your wife's wishes. Even if your wife had not made specific requests for what to do with her clothing, you would not be wrong for not wanting to give something to someone who is an opportunistic vulture.
I understand how you feel. My husband died in an accident. My stepdad harassed me for over an hour because he wanted some of my husband’s tools and air compressor. I told him NO, that my kids get his tools, and I will keep the air compressor. He told me that I was selfish. That he needed them more. I practically gave it to a neighbor just so that my stepdad wouldn’t get it. Our kids took what they wanted first.
NTA

I'm sorry you have to deal with this. This is an exceptionally hard time for you, and family should be helping, not making things worse.

I can't think of anything here that you did wrong. Given the emotions that must be involved, you handled that situation about as well as possible.

Take care of yourself and I hope this part blows away quickly.
NTA. You have to be a whole new level of AH to insult your brothers dead wife because you couldn’t freeload from her stuff. What a lunatic.
NTA. Your sister sucks. And wtf, your mom is out of touch with reality or very gullible.
NTA its in such poor taste to start tallying up the possessions someone left behind and trying to claim them. I too experienced this when my dad passed away although not to such an extent.
NTA

selfish cow is an understatement.. I don't think I'd ever talk to my sister again.
NTA. Your family is disgusting.
Nta. Sister and mom were really out of line and should consider themselves lucky if you decide to speak to them again. Your wife clearly had plans for her things after death and you should honor that of course. They caused the chaos during your mom's bday and you just reacted to their weird insensitivity. It's on them.
NTA

You're sister's statement tells the entire story.  With that single comment she has lost any right to speak with you, permanently.  NC with the sister, and LC with your mother at the least.  If your mother persists, ask her where your sister was during the last two years, what did she ever do to help your dying bride?  You need a break from this, and them.  Put some space between you.
NTA. Tell your mother that she needs to think long and hard about defending your sister calling your wife selfish even in death. Your sister was not kind to your wife, and now seeks to benefit from her death.

Tell her siding with your sister’s ugly behavior will have consequences.
I'm very sorry for your loss. When you are ready, donate your wife's clothing and any other items you'd like to charities that were important to her. 

Your sister's behavior is shameful, classless, childish, greedy, and ghoulish. Your mother seems to be her enabler. The two of them are the ones who created the birthday dinner drama and then blamed the widower!

How can you grieve properly, let alone begin to heal from your loss, when your family is making this  about your sister's greed?

NTA
NTA

Your description of your sister sounds accurate.  And if your mother is taking her side on this, it sounds like they're from the same herd.
NTA. I'm sorry for your loss.
What a B mess.  Follow your wife’s wishes.  That’s what she wanted so do that and tuff crap for the sister
I’m sorry for your loss.  Your wife sounds like she was an awesome person.  🌷
NTA.  I'm sorry for your loss. Donate the clothes to the charity in memory to your wife.  Don't give any of them to your sister.  If the clothing is high-end designer items, I'm willing to bet your sister would be selling them online for cash.
**NTA**

I’m so sorry for your loss. 

Donating your wife’s clothing to women in need is a beautiful thing to do. 

Your sister sounds unpleasant- I’d say more but it wouldn’t be helpful.
I’d burn the clothes and send your cow of a sister the video, but add a tender ’letting go of my dear love and closure.’

She can suck on lemons!
NTA

Go LC/NC with family and donate your wife’s clothing.
NTA.  You lost your person.  Asking questions about your plans for her possessions is just cruel.  

Our old neighbour kept many of his wife’s things for years because they reminded him of both her and of the moments they shared.  He just wasn’t ready. 

We all navigate grief in our own way.  Take the time you need, and handle things the way you want.  You should not have to justify anything to anyone right now, and your family should understand that.
NTA, you are good man and I am sorry for your loss. As suggested by some people, please go NC/LC with your mother and sister. Also, if you can/want to, share this post with your mother. She should know she is enabling crap/selfish behaviour. Try support groups in your community and process your grief by surrounding yourself with nice and sensitive people. God bless you OP. Pleasee, TAKE GOOD CARE.
NTA! I'm so sorry for loss. Your sister sounds like she's the selfish one. Had she been there for you and your wife during your time of need, it might be different. Your sister pushing because she says she "wants something to remember" your wife is a load of crap. She just wants to get her grubby hands on your wife's nice clothes and she thought her saying that would make you feel like you should allow it. The fact that your mother sides with your sister tells me that she's spoiled your sister into the selfish person she is today. The least they could do is allow you to grieve without badgering you about giving them your wife's things. Shame on both! Again, NTA
NTA, your sister and mother are vile and disgusting. How could your mother even utter those words. Like it wasn't YOUR wife. Like you wouldn't be having the hardest time with it. That is gross behavior. I am sorry you even had to go through any of that.
Yikes OP. NTA. Your mom may very well be the reason your sister is the way she is.

My condolences for your loss. I think donating the clothes to the women's shelter is a great idea and a beautiful way to honor her memory.
I don’t like your cow of a sister either.
You see, Cinderella was no fairytale,  these people really exist in the world.
Your sister is the asshole.
So sorry this happened to you, how horrible! I don’t think you are wrong in not giving your wife’s clothes to your sister.
NTA. You have every right to give your wife’s clothes away, keep them, or set them on fire. No one in your family is entitled to them.
NTA death can turn people into greedy assholes. I would honor your wife’s wishes and donate the clothes
Your mother thinks your wife's death is hard on your sister?!

Please keep your distance from your selfish blood relatives.

NTA
NTA. It would eat you up inside to see your sister in those clothes. Screw her. You losing your wife is not about her at all. Do what you think is best. The women's shelter sounds great. Those women will appreciate it so much.
I cannot fathom the disrespect here.

NTA
NTA, you're sister isn't entitled to shit.
Ffs because it wasn't hard for you at all! Do your mum and sister live in a different reality? NTA.
Dude if your mom actually said that your SISTER is the one taking YOUR WIFE'S recent death "hard" then you are absolutely and completely 100% NTA and neither of them is worth your time or consideration, much less your wife's clothes. Holy shit. I want to believe this is one of the fake ones.
NTA at all, ever.

Sorry for your loss. I can’t even imagine how hard that must have been.

Your sister has less emotional intelligence than a stapler. For your sake, I’m glad you’re not me, because “selfish gravy-sucking pig” would have been my first retort.

I don’t know how far along you are in the grieving process, but I wouldn’t wait to honor your wife’s wishes. People like Sarah have no shame. She’ll ask again, and even try to recruit the more spaghetti-brained members of your family in her quest. It would be much better if Sarah was invited to stare at empty closets.
It wasn’t over the clothes, it was over their entitlement and insensitivity. You are NTA. I am so sorry for your loss! Your wife sounds like she was a really great person.
NTA. Sorry for your loss. Your family are callous and suck hard. I hope your mum comes to her senses.
NTA. Your sister sounds like a real piece of work.
NTA. 


Leaving aside all the points about your selfish sister, how does she think you'll feel if she rocks up to a family gathering wearing your wife's outfits? 

Absolutely nta.
NTA. I’m sorry about your wife 💔 You are not being dramatic. Your sister is insensitive and spoiled.
Your sister is projecting her ill view of herself onto your wife. You wife isnt selfish, you sister is. But because your wife is doing something that's so selfless and thoughtful, your sister became insecure about her own lack of thought. She just blurted out what was in her head. NTA.
Definitely NTA!!
If she thought your wife was so awful,  why does she wanna wear her clothes? Nta
Your sister was taking your wife's death hard!!! How does she think it's been for you? You are following your wife's wishes, end of.
If any of my Sister-in-laws lost their life, the last fucking thing I would even think about is her clothes.  You are definitely not the a-hole. NTA. 

I think it's beautiful to donate her beautiful clothes to women in need.  Especially those who are probably at their lowest point.  Honor her memory as you believe you should. As you believe SHE would want.  

Also F your sister and your mom.
NTA - She’s taking YOUR WIFES death hard???  I would have screamed that at her along with a good old FU!
NTA. I’m so sorry your mother didn’t support you (that’s mind blowing, actually).
NTA. Taking the gift and leaving? Bravo. #BadAss
NTA at all. 

Your sister has some nerve bringing up her clothes at the funeral, and then bringing them up again. They're not to 'remember your wife' by, she probably wants to sell them. And your mom saying, "She's having a tough time getting over the death" You're her husband, what your cow of a sister is going through is nothing compared to what you're going through. 

Please get some help if you feel like it, and pass your wife's clothes on to Dress for Success, or another organization that will help women get jobs. I'm sorry for your loss and hope you find peace at some point.
I'm sorry about your wife! Definitely NTA. Your sister? What a tool! 

On the shelter donations, I applaud this. I was the assistant manager for a women's homeless shelter for years. Good quality clothes for job interviews, etc were so hard to come by! 

On a funny note ( hope this makes ya laugh!) I had someone come to the door one night and wanted to donate underwear. Except they were used  🤢 😂😂😂. True story!
I would have said the same thing to your sister, besides telling her NO! I'm glad you're honoring your wife's wishes. Your mom sounds like an enabler and your sister clearly doesn't have boundaries.
NTA. Giving the clothes to a women’s shelter is the only answer. 

And besides, do you want to be reminded of your loss every time you see your sister? 

You KNOW she would wear one of those outfits to a t-ball game or a backyard bbq just to get under your skin, ‘cause … who knows why?
I’m so sorry for your loss. By all means, donate her clothes the way your wife wanted, and feel satisfaction that you’re carrying out her wishes. Sister is a buzzing fly to be swatted away. NTA.
NTA. 

Normally I’m pro taking the high road but fuck your family. 

Donate them and send her a picture when you do. 

Then text her “even on passing my wife is still more selfless than you. Hopefully her generosity teaches you something” and then block her and go no contact with your Mom. Blood doesn’t make people family nor worth the drain they take on you.
If you want to be petty, pick out two outfits for your sister. Either cut them up or cover them in something and send them to her. 

Sorry for your loss. Your sister sounds awful.
NTA. You’re right, your sister is a cow.
NTA
NTA of course. You are honoring your wife's dead wishes.

I will say you probably should not have continued to escalate at your mom's birthday. Your sister said something super insensitive and rude, and you could have just replied with "that was insensitive, I do not want to talk to you anymore" and walked away. Saying the bit about lighting the clothes on fire is just an escalation at an event that is about your mom, not the two of you.

Of course your sister also escalated and made it about her, but you can't control what she does, only how you react.

But in general fuck your sister.
Great setting of healthy boundaries for your self. Self-care is a priority.
I couldn’t imagine seeing my wife’s clothes on another person if I lost her.  NTA.
Man...

NTA

The mom and sister would probably be on perma-block for me.  The sister is lucky all you did was verbally rip her a new one tbh.

Sorry for your loss.

Thoughts and prayers.
NTA. Your sister might have meant well, but she needs to understand that those items are more than just clothes—they’re memories. It’s okay to hold onto them for as long as you need to. Has anyone else faced similar situations where family didn’t get the emotional attachment to personal belongings?
So sorry for your loss. It sounds like your wife was a wonderful generous person unlike your sister. It is wonderful your wife wanted to donate to a charity she was involved with. She had a big heart. Maybe there will be an item or 2 left over that you may want to donate to your sister. Please make sure you have them cut and sewn into a pillow. She will have a nice memento that she can remember you both by. Again I am sorry for you loss and you are not the AH
It sounds like your sister filled your mom with stories. I’d sit down with your mom and tell her your experiences. Start like this, “I’m going to explain something to you. It’s very important to me that you listen to what I have to say. I don’t need any responses from you right away. I need you to hear me out, then take some time to think about what I’m telling you, hopefully it will sink in. Otherwise, it will cause a great rift in our relationship. “
NTA
NTA your wife was better than your sister
NTA. Your sister is the selfish one here.
NTA, your mom and sister are despicable human beings
I’m sorry your mom and your sister are AHs.  And I’m sorry for your loss.
NTA. They are your wife’s things. If you want to keep them and pile them on the bed and cuddle them, that might be a bit concerning from a healthy grief perspective but it’d be perfectly fine for you to do.
Not only are you NTA but this story is a classic for the entitled people thread because WTF! How entitled do you have to be to accuse a deceased person of being selfish because she wanted to donate to charity to help MULTIPLE WOMEN instead of letting you take it all???

DAMN OP. I am sorry for your loss, she sounds like she was an amazing human being.
Giving clothes to charity is the opposite of selfish. There are plenty of people who need them more than your sister who could probably afford to buy some herself. If she didn’t like your wife then it makes no sense for her to receive any item of hers, she won’t respect it or cherish it, it will just be like buying something from the store for her. If it doesn’t have sentimental value to someone then they don’t deserve to have it over what the deceased person wished to happen with it.
NTA   


I am so so sorry for your loss. I lost my partner and can imagine how hard this would be.

  
When you are ready, and not a moment before, donate what you are willing to donate to the women's group. It may bring you some little bit of comfort. Photograph items before you let them go, if you like. Take your time and keep anything that still speaks to you until you're ready. You don't have to be ready today, tomorrow or next year. 

Your wife will live on in the good she has done for you, her clients and will continue to do through her legacy.

Forget your sister, she sounds a nightmare.
Mentioning that at your wife’s, funeral was possibly the tackiest thing I have ever heard. NTA.
Emotional blackmail is correct. NTA.

This whole story is rough. Take care of yourself and get a good therapist if you have no one supporting you. 🩶

Donating the clothes to people who need it for job interviews / court appointments is a good thing.  Your donation will go to good use. Thank you.
NTA time to go NC with the unfortunately awful people you happen to be biologically related to. I am sorry for your loss.
Does she even hear herself, your wife is so selfish because SHE GIVES TO CHARITY?!?!?  Definitely go NC and do not give her a single thing. It will start with clothes, then it will be her jewelry, her car, etc. 

I am so sorry for your loss, I am sure your wife is proud of you for standing up to your AH sister. 


But…if you want to be super petty give the sister a gift of your wife’s clothes, maybe an old joke T shirt she got at a bar, one with stains she wore mowing the lawn etc. make sure you wrap it up in like a nice box or hanging bag too.
So NTA 

Your sister’s trying to manipulate is insane.
ESH - You would have won the argument if you had just let it end with your sister suggesting that donating clothes to a women's shelter is selfish.  Instead you gave her and your mother fodder for making you the bad guy.  

If you haven't already, donate the clothes and be done with it, so it isn't available to debate.
NTA.. I think you know you didn’t even need to ask this
Are you...seriously asking if you were the ah when the answer is so clear?
I’m sorry for your loss. “The clothes have been donated in accordance with my wife’s wishes.”
NTA.

The fact they are being cruel probably makes it easier to say no. That said, there’s no scenario where you would be anything but NTA for doing what you want with your wife’s clothes.
If this is true that is a family that I would avoid at all costs.
You’re not AH. Most definitely give your wife clothes to women shelter, but your sister is a C word. She didn’t even ask you how you were handling the passing of your wife. Just her clothes.
It would be a long ass time before I spoke to either of those emotional black holes again.
Family.  Cut them the fuck loose and move on.  

I did  this over 20 years ago.
NTA.  Block your sister.   She's greedy and cruel.
NTA. Your sister is being very selfish and insensitive. If your wife had specific wishes for her clothes by all means respect those wishes. IMHO if your sister really cared she would be supportive of her SIL's last wishes. Sounds like someone you should be avoiding.
Just. Wow. That was some entitlement coming from your sister. Your mom's response explained a lot. I am so very sorry for your loss. It sounds like your wife as a good soul to the end. Donate those clothes to deserving women. Your sister is not one of them.
The fact that you’re typing this question out on Reddit from the comfort of wherever you are, and not behind bars for beating the absolute fucking piss out of your sister, makes you a more patient human being than I think 95% of us. Good on ya. I’m sorry about your wife. 

NTA.
Your sister is right: your wife is better than her, even if your wife never thought such a thing,
Well now you know who kept the conflict up between your wife and your sister. Your mother had the nerve to say word one about your wife and that word was , “your sister is grieving.”
Aww hell to the mf no.
I would have thrown the cake across the fucking room
The clothes should go to a woman’s shelter who can use them for interviews and jobs. When you are ready. Don’t get rid of anything till you are really ok with it. But the sister is a c word.
Both your mom & sister are garbage people. Leave them behind you and live in peace. You deserve no less. 🪷
Your sister and your mother need to be deleted from your list of people with which you associate.
I'm so sorry for your loss.
> My sister Sarah didn’t do jack shit for us… during that time

I didn’t need to read any further to say NTA.  Donate your wife’s clothes and seek the closure you need.
NTA. And make sure to change the locks to your house if your mother or sister has a spare for emergencies.  

Your wife wanted them to go to a cause that meant something to her. That is beautiful and you will be honoring her memory. 

Your mother saying that your wife’s passing is really affecting your sister while your sister is trolling you for her stuff and saying nasty things about her is just crazy.
i feel like this sub is just ai now
Oh OP Your Loss is undescribable. Then to have to put up with this bombardment of selfish.. well ..

Let me tell you about a small easy to say word. It's "no " This requires no explanation. Announce "no " and make that your final word on the subject.

If anyone wishes to still discuss or disparage your wife's good name then advise them  if one more word is said you will walk away from them.

You need people to build you up in this time of grief and new normal for your life.  These vultures are NOT the people.
NTA op you're a good Person, your sister is self centered.
The fact you donated her clothes to a shelter goes a long way to thinking and helping others in need. From a survivor of domestic abuse I thank you.  Go NC with sister. She will never change. You might later, after some grief counseling, talk to your mom about this.  My condolences on your loss.
My mom died last week. Three years ago I went to visit her as I live 8k miles away. She made me take her wedding bands, saying if I didn't take them now, that when she did die, my SIL who lives an hour away will take them before I could make it there.

I did not want to take them, but reluctantly agreed to. When mom died last week my SIL apparently was found looking through my mom's safe for her rings. My oldest brother (he is not her husband) told SIL that mom had given them to me a couple of years ago. I heard she stormed out of the house.

I'm happy I took the rings, but I'd rather my mom still be alive.
NTA
NTA. Your sister and mother are nothing short of despicable.
Donate the clothes. They’ll get over it.
NTA
My condolences brother. You've got some toxic ass people in your family. Stay up. It'll get better.
Fellow widower to cancer here. I'm so sorry for your loss. It's your call what happens with your wife's clothes, those are very personal items. You're handling it as best you can. The only advice I'd give is to just not interact with your sister at all when something like this comes up. Just say "I'm not discussing this" and walk away. That advice is only for the benefit of your mental health, not because your sister didn't deserve your response. 
NTA
Your wife clearly is better than her. Omg the nerve. NTA
NTA.

Dude what the fuck is wrong with your mom.

"your sister is taking the death hard."

She was you wife.

Does your mom always prioritize your sisters feelings over your own?
NTA. Keep both sister & mom at arm’s length. Pretty obvious your sister never cared about your wife. The crassness of asking for her clothes at her wake is a new level of low class behavior. So sorry for what you’ve been through.
NTA.

If they continue doing that, maybe you want to be petty and give your sister the oldest and most ugly yoga pants or something like that.

But, honestly, as a widow myself, six months are not nearly enough to even process the hard truth that the person you wanted to get old with is gone. It's not enough time to even get over the first grief. So your mother calling you "melodramatic"... that's an AH move. 

I donated my late husband's clothes, too. I still have his favorite suit, a few of his favorite shirts and the running shoes he wore for his first marathon... and a few hoodies I still wear from time to time.
NTA! Damn and I haven’t asked for anything after my niece died and I just wanted a favorite hoodie or something to make her something she can hug and hold onto when she needs it.  
This is beyond rude especially after the person just past away.
NTA. I am so sorry for your loss
NTA.  Death always brings out the vultures. I am truly sorry for the loss of your wife.  The fact that that harpy if a sister started pestering you at the wake was so detestable.  


Contact the womens shelter and ask which clothing and misc items would best benefit them.  They may have better use for daily wear and other miscellaneous items.  Regarding your wifes work clothes.  See if you have a local Dress for success.  They provide clothes for interviews, employment etc.  Donate those items in your wifes name and know that even after her passing she is doing something good.


If your sister contacts you again tell her this is a final no, cut her off and block her. Tell your mother that they never liked each other and she had no right to pester you starting at the wake. Add that if she can't respect your wishes and let you grieve in peace you will be limiting contact with her as well.


You need time to grieve in peace.  Do not take anymore  calls.  Go to places special to you and your wife and reminisce.  You can cry, laugh , yell or whatever helps you feel better.  When you can talk to a grief counselor.   
Do not let them know which charity you are donating. She will just go after them.
100,000,000 NTA! Shame on your mother for coddling your adult sister, but I’m guessing that’s part of why your sister is the way she is. She was given whatever she asked for and feels entitled. Donating to the Women’s shelter is a beautiful tribute to your wife.
NTA at all, in any way. Donating your wife's clothes to the women's shelter is a beautiful way to remember your wife.

Also, change your locks, even if you believe no one has a copy of the key. Things are chaotic when someone is dying and a key might have been made without your knowledge. And I wouldn't put it past your sister to help herself to your wife's things.
Props to you! I’d even let them know in the future you found another batch of clothes and you donated those too, along with some nice bags. Sorry your sister and mother are so self centered. Don’t let them gaslight you.
My grandmother passed and a cousin from Georgia backed her station wagon up to Grandma's house and loaded everything she wanted, including the family, China and the silver. She hadn't spoken to Grandma for years and Grandma had wanted everything split between my sister and myself because we were the only ones that paid any attention to her. My aunt saw My cousin as she was pulling out and tried to stop her but my cousin stomped on it and left with a visibly full station wagon. 
An aunt from my father's side of the family, may a  habit of visiting her dying siblings and taking what she could. My aunt and uncle had left everything to us. The aunt went and made a bonfire of the stuff she didn't  want and sold the rest to an antique store before my Uncle's funeral.  She took all the family pictures and letters and took them home where they were destroyed in a flood. This included an ongoing  correspondence of my grandfather and President Kennedy  At one uncle's house she stole his paintings that he had willed to his kids.  One of his daughters went to her house and saw her painting hanging on the wall but the aunt would not give it to her.
Geez, block her and move on. NTA
^^^^AUTOMOD  ***Thanks for posting! This comment is a copy of your post so readers can see the original text if your post is edited or removed. This comment is NOT accusing you of copying anything. Read [this](https://www.reddit.com/r/AmItheAsshole/wiki/faq#wiki_post_deletion) before [contacting the mod team](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FAmItheAsshole)***

My wife was a corporate lawyer and mediator. She had some very nice work clothes. She was diagnosed with ovarian cancer and was gone in two years. The last six months of her life were hell. 

My sister Sarah didn't do jack shit for us of us during that time. My wife never liked her. I do not like her. She is a selfish cow. 
At my wife’s wake, she started asking about my wife’s clothes, and I brushed her off. She wanted to pick out a few pieces to “remember my wife by,” and I ignored her. 

It's been six months, and I've attended my mom’s birthday, but I’m still not in the mood to deal with people. Then Sarah comes, asking about my wife’s clothes. 

I told her my wife wanted me to donate them to this women's shelter, and she often helped. It will help women in need with their own court cases, court appointments, and job interviews. 

My sister Sarah said my wife was even selfish in death. I asked her what the fuck did she mean? And she started going off on how my wife always thought she was better than her, and it's not far that the clothes are going to charity and not to family. 

I told my sister I would rather see my wife’s clothes lit on fire than on her back. My sister started crying, and my mom came over to see what was wrong. My mom told me to be easy on my sister because she was talking about my wife’s death hard. 

The fucking insanity of that coming out of my mom’s mount made me grab my gift and leave. My mom acts like I had to ruin her birthday by being melodramatic, but I cannot believe their emotional blackmail towards me over fucking clothes that they have no right to. 

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/AmItheAsshole) if you have any questions or concerns.*
NTA. I'm so sorry for your loss and I'm frankly impressed with your self restraint. You were right to leave when you did and in my mind you'd be justified in lighting her car on fire.
Wow your sister is a piece of work. She’s 1000% the selfish one. She’s probably been eyeing your wife’s clothes all these years and tried to take the soonest opportunity to get them. Your sister doesn’t deserve anything of your wife’s belongings. She didn’t like her when she was alive so she doesn’t get to demand anything. NTA
[removed]
First of all, so sorry for your loss. That said, what the actual hell is it with this greedy scavenger and her enabler? I suggest keeping your distance from them and going Low Contact indefinitely. Exposure is not good for your mental wellbeing.

NTA
[removed]
NTA 
Your sister sounds ridiculous.
NTA.  So sorry for your loss.
UpdateMe
Nta wtf is wrong with your family? That is jnsane, I can’t see the logic in what came out of your mother’s mouth.
NTA.

Your sister is so out of pocket. Good on you for keeping your hands to yourself after she called your late wife selfish. How awful.
My mom wasn't dead a day before my niece was asking my brother for some of her high ticket items. My SIL and other niece would go over to my mom's house to "get the good stuff" before we went through it in a civilized manner as a family. My SIL hated my mom, but loved her her expensive taste and lifestyle. Some people are assholes when lived ones die.
How do you feel about donating your wife’s clothes to a women’s charity that lends out clothing to women for interviews? Or supporting college graduates who need professional attire for finding a job? This might help heal the pain.
Maaaan just reading this made me ragey. Definitely NTA. For your sanity, I’d cut contact with them, or at least low contact with mom and total cut off with sister.
I would rather donate them to a good cause and never have to see them and be constantly reminded.
You’re not the AS. Asking for your wife’s clothes is barbaric.
NTA. You were not rude; your sister was the one who thought your mom's birthday was the time to not only bring it up, but be pushy and insult your late wife. I am so sorry for your loss. Making that donation would be a wonderful way to honor your wife's memory.
Good lord who comes flying in like a vulture before even a loved one's corpse is cold and starts asking about their possessions. Some people just have no respect and decency.

NTA.
NTA - time to block both your vulture sister AND your mother
I’m sorry for your loss.  NTA
Your wife sounds positively beautiful and the donations will be cherished by those who receive them.
Nta sell the stuff on posh. Use the money for legal aid to battered women. 
Nta your sister is a piece of work
NTA

your wife, her clothes, her death (rip), her fucking choice. Personally I hate it when "family" acts as though they have some claim over someone's belongings even when alive. Your wife had already decided she wanted to help other women by donating her clothes there and your sister has no claim on those clothes.
NTA - people accuse others of doing what they do. Because your sister and mother are selfish cows, they assume your wife is the same.
YOUR SISTER is taking YOUR WIFE’S death hard??? Jfc NTA. I’m sorry for your loss and for your family.
NTA. That wench.  Selfish for wanting the clothes to go to those who need it more?  Just cut her.  Errr.   Just cut her off.   Honestly, my sincere condolences.
NTA and you might want to consider having such evil people and their enablers in your life.
[removed]
NTA. Horrible people.
😲 like you mom said what ??? Wtf?? Nta. Glad you took the gift with you.
NTA. I'm deeply sorry for your loss, OP. You are doing what your wife wanted, and it's something that wouldn't hurt anyone, in fact  it will be very helpful for a lot of women in need. 
Your sister asking about the clothes during your wife's funeral is wild tbh. She's selfish and I think your reaction is fair.
NTA - Yes your sister is incredibly selfish, but what did the poor cow do to be compared to her. I am sorry you lost your wife, and that your mom and sister are so insensitive.
NTA. Donate the clothes and avoid both of them. 

I am so sorry for your loss.
My deepest condolences for your loss. Your wife sounded like a wonderful woman.
> And why is your mother worrying about your sister taking your wife's death hard when you were the one who lost their wife?

Yeah, that stuck out to me. I can't imagine having the gall to tell the *widower* to go easy on a scavenger because they're taking the widower's spouse's death hard.
I can't even imagine the mental gymnastics on mom's part where "your sister is taking YOUR WIFE'S DEATH hard" is a logical excuse for anything.
Vultures fill a valuable role in nature. OP’s sister? Questionable.
Yeah, Mommy dearest there needs to read up on Ring Theory.

What a complete fail parenting moment that was. But I hope that a moment was all it lasted.

My condolences to you, OP. You're doing right by your wife's wishes. She was taken far too soon from this world, but even in death, she can do so much good for a whole lot of women in need. When you're ready to follow through and part with some of her things, she will be proud of you and your strength.
I had a very close relative die who left me a small legacy, and other asshole relative — who made WAY more than I did! —acted like I owed some of it to them for idk, helping with some of the funeral arrangements? 

I had buried that memory till now…
I wonder if mom also wants a share of the clothes the vulture tries to get.
Happy Cake Day
Happy cake day.
Happy cake day🍰
Happy cakeday!!
It’s incredibly selfish to ask for her clothes at all! I agree with you the funeral was the #1 worst place. We had people asking for my father’s tools before we even had the funeral. I don’t get some people 
And if the sister where truly sad for the wife's death, she wouldn't call her selfish, that is BS, she is emotionally manipulative and incredible egocentric if she needs to put a show because she didnt get what she wanted

Op should probably distant himself from them at least wile he is grieving because having his sister predating his late wife's possessions wile his mother enable her won't do him any good in this process
NTA who asks for things at a person's wake. Like how inconsiderate and ignorant can a person be. I am so sorry for your loss. I love that your wife wanted to donate her clothes to this organization. And I agree with this person's comment. Find a griefshare support group. It literally saved me years ago. Check with locals churches, that's how I found griefshare. My doctor was the one who recommended them to me.
NTA. My dad’s sisters copied everything my mom had. He gifted her jewelry? They would instantly give that piece to a jeweller and get it made. Clothes? Would pout and be passive aggressive until they were gifted the same. The night of her funeral (same day she passed), one of those women had the audacity to ask for her cashmere shawls because ohhh she loved them so much. No fuck off.
The donation of clothes will be very welcome. Sorry for your loss and having to deal with your mom and sister. Keep mom at arms length for your own sanity. Stay away from sister. Get the grief support suggested. NTA
Exactly. His sister isn't "taking the wife's death hard." She doesn't care at all about her death. Sister cares about sister and that she's not getting her way. And Mom is enabling it by lying for her. Fuck em both. 

NTA.
Yeah OP should consider going NC with them, in my opinion.
Incredibly thoughtful and kind response and something the OP deserves to read. You're a good person.

NTA
I'm so sorry for you loss OP. 

I would also like to add that perhaps OP could keep a few to be made into a cushion or part of a blanket so he has a nice reminder of his wife. But clothes are still going to those that needed them, like his wife wanted.
Well said.
NTA

SUPER SORRY for your loss.

I'd keep sis away from the clothes also.
And change the locks if anyone else has a key or those clothes will magically wind up with your sister.

NTA

Condolences on the loss of your wife.
Second the donation! It's a smart idea. Alex Trebek made a similar donation of the suits and ties he wore while hosting *Jeopardy!* to a charity that helps people exiting prison get ready for job interviews. NTA.
I have cows, and they are of much better character than your sister. 

I lol'd at your preference to see the clothes lit on fire than on your sister's back. Ooh that was harsh 🤣🤣🤣

NTA. Donate the clothes to the charity where they will do the most good and be appreciated. Maybe give a pair of panties to your sister. (Ok, yes, I can be incredibly petty).
I couldn’t agree more.  Don’t give your sister as much a sock full of holes.    You need to go NC with her.   She was horrible when your wife was here and is taking it to a new low in her death.   Your mother is an awful person too.  How can she possibly excuse this behavior?    You need to go LC for a while
If anyone possibly has keys to your home, change the locks and get security cameras.    Your sister is just crazy enough to break in

I’m so very sorry for your loss.   It is devastating to watch someone you love slowly lose their battle with cancer.  To deal with that and the grief afterwards without family support is disgraceful

Edit for grammar
Not a “selfish cow.” More accurately a “selfish sow.”
Absolutely nta im sorry your sister and mom can't let you grieve for your wife in peace  piggybacking off this post check out the hospice nearby. The local hospice by me at least they offer free bereavement counseling (individual and group). I hope you have an excellent support system and some peace without you sister harassing you so you can grieve.
Well said!
This this this! NTA
Who has the audacity to ask about clothes at someone’s wake?!?!
What a selfless act to donate them to charity rather than clothe someone who clearly wanted to pick over any designer items she might have had for herself.
Your mum also needs a word, if her passing was hard on your sister then what does she think it’s been for you let alone before your sister called your wife selfish.
And don't tell your mother or your sister where and when you donated them.  Or your sister will run over there and buy them up
I feel like he could just say be blunt and call them out on it something like "I'm really not inclined to give sis my wifes clothes after she calls her selfish even in death because she wants to donate them to a women's shelter for women who literally have nothing. Also she said my wife was selfish even in death, so that automatically means she thought my wife selfish in life, she also said she always knew my wife looked down on her and you expect me to believe that a person who thinks this not only wants something to remember her by, but is taking her death hard? And how convenient that the thing she wants to remember my wife by just happens to be her super expensive suits? So that means she tried to emotionally manipulate her grieving brother who watched his wife slowly and painfully die by cancer in order to get some suits off a barely cold corpse. She basically tried swindle clothes away from a grieving widow, but I'm the bad guy in this?"

Op isn't melodramatic, he is responding at appropriate level for someone in his situation.
Quit insulting cows.
In Australia at least there are “clothing libraries” for women down on their luck. They book them out like books, sometimes needing a small deposit and return them laundered for the deposit back. 

Better for a woman in need to have access to multiple outfits than just one given to them. Unless your local shelter has the same principle then that is a different story. 

Fuck the sister and honour your wife.
My husband died in April, and I was stunned how fast people (our children!) started picking apart his things. I shut it down hard and fast… his body wasn’t even cold yet. 

I’ll never understand why death makes some people so monstrous.
Your comment is spot on, but let’s not disparage cows as being selfish. (I say quite tongue-in-cheekly 😏)
Cows are lovely, caring creatures; OP’s sister is just a selfish creature who is neither lovely nor caring.
NTA, it's easy to see who the favorite child is, and who only cares about the sister getting everything she wants.   I bet the posters guessing that the clothes will end up on Poshmark or another sale site are exactly right.    

What will sister's next demand be?  Wife's car?   Jewelry, or other property?  Sister and mother are despicable.
The sister is trying to be manipulative… and doing a terrible job at it. Calling the diseased selfish and insulting the person who she wants something from. She’s very mean and also quite stupid.
Agreed. No one wants a whole wardrobe, and in the intervening months, found clothes of her own. She wants to sell them.
Better yet. Change the locks
Manipulative daughters often know just how to press mom’s buttons.  ‘It’s her baby!’
Mom may be trying to preserve her state of denial about what a selfish, manipulative, greedy person she raised.
You have a way with words, sir.
I 100% agree with you, but there was no mention of children.
She ruined her own birthday with her favoring comments about one of her children. One that was also just straight up insanity I might add.
Nah his mom is fully an AH for her comment. It was an insane comment to make that makes it apparent she cares more about her daughter than her son, and just plain doesnt make sense.
HAHAHAHHAA
I like you
NTA 

Either she’s always been jealous his wife has nice clothes and wants them or she wants to sell them if they’re expensive.
OP should warn the shelter that sister will be coming by and demanding the clothes.   You know she'll try.
I think oftentimes they are the bad sibling because they were and are the golden child.
This made me laugh. But gave me the idea of doing that in PJ's.
Nah you are wrong and off base and really tone-policing a grieving man who is being hit with vulture behavior from a shit human. 
It's not his job to "keep the peace". It's perfectly acceptable for him to pop back with some venom when met with cruelty.
JFC... No. The sister started and caused all of this on mom's birthday.  He in no way did anything even remotely inappropriate.
I mean, sure- but why should he, the freshly bereaved, be the bigger person?  His sister is completely responsible for the situation.
He was honest. That’s exactly how I would feel—better to burn the clothes than to see this nasty piece of work rewarded for her bile. Given how cruel she’s being, he owes her no diplomacy.

And I don’t believe OP’s wife would care at all about him making a scene at her wake or MIL’s birthday party. These two women are actively *hurting* her husband. She would definitely have had his back in that moment. She was probably cheering him on in spirit.
Grieving widower’s need to stand up for themselves and their late wife when being needlessly upset > an adult’s birthday party.
Mom & daughter BOTH probably wanted those clothes
My brain short-circuited reading that one, ngl.
Maybe one day she'll be good enough to be vulture food.
You know, I can’t argue with this.
Ring theory?
When my mom died, my sister and I bought her a new suit for the viewing and to be cremated in. She hadn’t spent money on herself in years and we felt she deserved it. My grandmother told us, at the viewing, that she’d like the suit. We were both shocked, but stammered out something about how we wanted our mom to have something nice one last time.
When my grandmother died, my aunt let my cousin's high school exchange student and her friends visiting from Germany go through and take whatever they wanted. They probably took $30k worth of diamond and gold jewelry because it looked cool. I'll never know what all they got because no one else had looked or inventoried anything yet.  It was all gone before my mom and I were able to arrange things at home and drive several states over. 

After that debacle, I think I'd speak up immediately if there was something I wanted from a family member's estate. But this SIL of deceased in this story is awful.
Some friend of my father’s partner asked for a tour of the house when he drove her home after my dad died and then started asking about his tools - my dad hadn’t even been dead for a whole day yet.
Better then my ex sil durning the wake which was in my mother's house I see her walk into my mom's room she was in the closet going through things she made a pile of stuff and said she would like to keep these, my brother smartly took her out of the house without the items and they divorced a few months later.
Edit to finish sentence.
It's wild that people do this but I think it's more common than we realize. When my bestie's mom died, some of the people they had a timeshare with attended. One woman approached my friend WHO HAD JUST LOST HER MOM, asking when she could get the keys because she figured her dad wasn't going to use it that year. Fucking ghouls.
We have a family battle over a ring. My entire life my grandma said "diamonds are yours, but the emerald is your mom's." We had someone (her neice? Idk, I don't remember ever meeting the woman) come to Grandma's death bed to ask for the emerald ring. And then checked the coffin at the funeral and continued to ask about it. The audacity.
It's more common than you think. My younger sibling asked for my stuff when I die of my genetic condition since she 'heard it was getting worse'.

It was not. I do not talk to my family anymore, let alone share updates on my health.

Some people are just narcissistic as hell.
[removed]
The worst I ever saw was when I worked at a nursing home and the resident died. The family was called (who never visited btw) and they were there literally tossing clothes on the bed where the residents body still was because the ambulance hadn’t arrived to get the body yet.
I can do you one better. when my grandfather died my uncle asked for the TV...my grandfather was still in the bed. people are assholes when it comes to other people's stuff when they die.
[removed]
A lot if entitled people do it. So my ex's grandmother passed. Cousin, who never visited or called, etc, talked shit about everyone on this side, wanted to be the realtor for the house we inherited and sold. We went thru our realtor, who wasn't trying to make a cash grab. (He waved his fee). 

Cousin lost her shit called and was yelling over the phone at ex, who was very much unable to deal with anything. I heard the screaming and yelled over the extension to hang up. Told her off and slammed the handset down.

They crawl out of the woodwork like roaches!
My cousin takes the cake of the worst family member.

She never visited my grandma in the nursing home. The first time she was going to after a year, she arrived 30 minutes after our grandma died. If that wasn't bad enough?

My grandma was covered in her blanket as a courtesy to the family before being wheeled out, and we were saying our goodbyes. My cousin started ooh-ing and ahh-ing at the blanket, considering taking it.

My mother had to scream at her to knock it off and received offended huffs.

Needless to say, I went NC with that cousin!
Mmm…when my mom died, my dad’s sister made it to my parents’ house before I did, and she packed up several of my mama’s things she wanted before I had a chance to even think.  She also tried to one-up my grief by claiming mom’s death had hit her much harder since she’d known mama longer than I had.  🤷‍♀️
A friend's father died without a will and was unmarried. My friend was his only child from a previous marriage, so she would inherit is house and other property. His family of addicts and chiselers was furious.  At his celebration of life they gave her a sterile drinking glass with sterile water and got her to take a sip. Bingo! Off to lab for DNA test. They were determined to prove she was not his child! Didn't work out for them. He also was a race car mechanic at had tens of thousands in tools and instruments they were trying to steal. They filed lawsuits and came up with a phoney will as well. It was a battle, but she got it all and bought a farm in WV. Even her own mother tried to claim property from her. Now she has no contact with either families of ass holes.
My sister’s BFF died suddenly and a “friend” of hers called her grieving brother The. Next. Day. requesting a particular expensive designer product “to remember her by”. The profound audacity stuns me. 

edit: added missing letter
If my wife dies first, I fully expect one of my step kids to immediately start pestering me for this or that.  There are just ridiculously selfish people in the world.

Oh, and OP is NTA.
My aunt. She brought old photos to an ethnic group organization to show people, then brought them to mom a few months before mom's stroke.

She was in ICU, auntie asked
She was in rehab, auntie asked
I was getting her house ready to sell, auntie asked
Planning her funeral, auntie asked.

I brought them to a small family reunion and gave pictures to those whose relatives they were.

Mind you I hadn't seen them and had no idea what pictures she was looking for until I found them.

I had so much to do and the pictures weren't anywhere near the top of the list
My cousin asked for my grandmother's car at the fucking hospital. I wish I were joking.
My aunt did. At her own Father's wake. Her two little "angel daughters" didn't even have to hold their baby brother during any of it. I had to because "you're so good with him and other kids". (Later punched older cousin for being a little asshole)


She wanted his house, which went to my brother (he was 18 or 19), my great aunts lake house, all the land that had the house that we t to my brother (most of the land went to him too), and her own brothers trailer that he had given my parents for a low price. 


She got the lake house. Well she sold it and didn't give any money to any of her siblings "we need this as start up money for new state".


The middle child (hope she is doing good) cut them off not long ago.
A lot if entitled people do it. So my ex's grandmother passed. Cousin, who never visited or called, etc, talked shit about everyone on this side, wanted to be the realtor for the house we inherited and sold. We went thru our realtor, who wasn't trying to make a cash grab. (He waved his fee). 

Cousin lost her shit called and was yelling over the phone at ex, who was very much unable to deal with anything. I heard the screaming and yelled over the extension to hang up. Told her off and slammed the handset down.

They crawl out of the woodwork like roaches!
A guy I knew was murdered, a bunch of us were at the precinct right after it happened, and one of the first things his mother said is, when are they going to release the car (she wanted to sell it). His car was part of the crime, and the police had already had it towed to their yard. It was a very expensive car and this was her main concern. The sister asking for his wife's clothes doesn't surprise me at all after seeing that.
All jokes aside, after my BFFs mum's funeral (yes, I was close to her too, she was my second mum as an adult) we got absolutely hammered at her house and split the kitchen equipment. Her children had taken what they wanted and I had first dibs on the rest. We all love cooking and it seemed a hugely appropriate way to remember and love her. Every time I use those things I remember her as she was. 

My kitchen is a mix of my parental grandmother, stuff I got from my parents when I went to uni, stuff I bought, and hers. I love and cherish it all.
At my father's funeral this woman who supposedly was a friend of my parents for decades approached me asking for some dishes and portable tables my parents had for entertaining.  If she hadn't approached so soon after my father's casket had been loaded onto the hearse for the cemetery, I probably would have just offered them to her. 

But nah, f*ck her
Literally the only thing to ask at a wake is "what can I do to help?"

"Selfish cow" (as OP put it) sounds about right for his sister.
If you talk to people who run funeral homes , they tell you some stories. They get to see FIGHTS at the funeral over the deceased persons stuff .
Absolutely agree with the GriefShare recommendation. That group helped my mom immensely. Oddly enough she said the first time she laughed again after my dad’s death was at a GriefShare meeting. 
And to add, OP, you are most definitely NTA. You are the most non-AH that I’ve seen on the sub in a long time. Sorry for your loss.
Mom died of cancer when I was 14. While we were at her wake, her “friends” went through our home and cleaned us out. 

Like, not only her badass clothes that I’d kill to own today, but they also took all of our Disney VHS collection, our encyclopedia set, our TV, our boombox, and other things that they thought us kids couldn’t keep (since we had to move in with our grandparents after her death [because my dad wouldn’t take us and our step-dad went awol during her final days {only to be found months later living across the street with our neighbour who was having his kid}]). All under the guise of “helping us move out of welfare housing since, with her gone, the kids couldn’t stay there anymore and have nowhere to store her things”. 

People are vultures and parasites.

EDIT TO ADD: NTA
In the 20 years I had my stepmother in my life I had never met any of her family. Her mother and sister showed up to the funeral, asked for a moment alone, and stole the jewelry off her body and any mementos they believed to be of any monetary value. Including a beautiful frame containing the only copy of a photo containing my father’s side of the family before we lost many people in a short time.
Assholes ask for things at a person's wake.
My niece and nephew did and it was the afternoon my dad passed away! Some people are cold and heartless.
Happened to me even before the wake when my Mom was on her death bed. People can be selfish jerks. I look at it this way, they show you who they are believe them
People who have no remote inkling of human decency or ability to use their brains.
My husband offered my old phone to his sister because I guess hers broke. I said not to ever offer anything on mine even if I'll never use it again. I'd rather smash the perfectly usable item than her have it. In death you can burn all my stuff as long as it doesn't go to someone I can't stand.
My sister was asking about my moms rental property while we were planning her funeral. The same property she never visited because it’s too far. The mom she smacked in the face two months after brain surgery. The mom she threw a can of corn at after my dad’s funeral, leaving a bruise on her ribs.
My sister would ask for things after their death at thanksgiving before my mother passed. Some people are just terrible people.
Unfortunately I've seen this....my grandfather was dying and visitors were asking for something to remember him by....cash
She’s not even in the ground yet and the sister wants to raid her belongings. The sister is 1 of the worst type of person. The mother is an enabler. Good luck to OP.
I'm pretty sure mentioning things you want at a wake is the best way to NEVER get them, even if the deceased promised them to you. It's so off-putting.
Regarding how some people can be this crass at a funeral:

I have a cousin who married a guy who is just the biggest asshole. He's loud, obnoxious, and intentionally pushes people's buttons to the point of bullying, just because he thinks it's fun. At some point, he bullied me on social media, so my husband and I both blocked him. (This guy was in his early 40s at the time, BTW!)

Anyway, I hadn't seen this guy or had any contact in over a year when my dad died. At the wake, he comes up to me with a big grin and tauntingly asks why my husband and I unfriended him on socials. I'm standing 10 feet from my father's body in a casket, and this is the first thing he says! 

(Just an example of how truly awful some people can be. It sounds like OP's sister is also awful.)
My grandparents were each on their second marriage when they got together, with my mom the only child of their relationship and all of her brothers at least ten years older (two on each side). When my grandfather died, my grandma decided to move in with us, and her eldest son came over under the guise of comfort and started asking her to write a will with specific objects in it - essentially shopping her home for her death. 

When she did actually die after my parents gave up their jobs to be her full time caretaker during Covid, the first thing he did within hours of her death in 2022 (he had been informed of her sepsis and that she would die soon but opted not to show) was call and harass them for some barrister’s shelves that were in use in the home.

Some people are monsters.
I agree about the grief group. I did that when my mom passed suddenly, and it helped so much. Everyone sharing their stories REALLY helped me feel understood, and it helped me keep my loss in perspective (some people in my group had it much worse than I did).  Plus it’s social etc.   I highly recommend it.
I have a SIL who has been claiming things of her (divorced) parents for years. They are both still very much alive. It makes me cringe every time I hear that she's "taking this (or that) when mom/dad dies." 
OP, so very sorry for your loss. If you ever want to be petty, give a few items (when/if you're ready to) to a woman sister knows and let her see them on someone else. (But I AM petty that way) But I think giving them to a woman's charity is a wonderful idea!!
It’s amazingly common.  My husband’s dad died when he was a kid and people began arriving that same day and removing possessions from the home that they claimed his late father had promised them 😳 . My husband was just a child and his mom was broken with recent grief, so many of the valuables were carted away.
We had just buried my grandfather when a neighbor came over to ask if he could buy his car. People are hopeless.
My nan died and my uncle, her son, looted her entire flat and trashed it too.
Nan woukd have been so upset that her only son was such an ah.
At her funeral he wore jeans, trainers, shirt hanging out... A mess. No respect
yeah if there is a sewing store they could put him in touch with quilt artists—in the old days, quilts were often made with important keepsake fabric as well as scraps, so it would be part of a wholesome tradition
After my mom passed, we took a fluffy robe that she had and had it made into several matching yellow teddy bears.
My aunt makes teddy bears out of dead people's clothes (that sounds creepier than it is) as memorials for their loved ones.
Aye, youre sister can get fucked.
Kindly stop insulting animals by mentioning them in the same breath as this mold of a human.

And while there are some positive sides to mold, this is the one that ruins everything she touches.
Apologies to all our bovine friends.  But not to OP's sister.
I will never understand this & I’ve seen it happen a few times right before my eyes.  

If you’re asking someone for a favor, you need to be nice to them.  (You should be nice to them regardless). If they decline and you would like to continue the conversation in order to convince them to change their mind, DO NOT INSULT THEM.  How hard is that to figure out?

The number of times I’ve had to say “do you think calling me a B is the best way to convince me to change my mind?” 🤦‍♀️
That’s what I was thinking .
And get cameras inside and out.
Yes, change the locks and get a ring camera so you can see the looks on their faces when they try their old keys in the doors and they don't work. 

Then go NC with them both.
This !!
I think she cares more about preserving the appearance of a happy family more than either of them tbh.  A lot of parents just want everyone to get along.  They have no capacity for family drama and discourse and just want everyone else to think they're the perfect family.
Exactly , these two things go together . Being spoiled your whole life rarely creates decent humans
Sometimes, my evil twin comes out!
Plus, sometimes it feels good to go off on someone who deserves it.
We just have to leave her corpse out in the sun a couple of days to ripen.  
That's how it is with squirrels, anyway.
Imagine a set of concentric rings.

The innermost ring is the epicenter of loss or trauma or tragedy. In this case, while OPs wife alive, she would have been at its center.

Her husband (and her parents) would be the next ring out. His family and friends who knew her would be on rings farther out, depending. Her SIL would be particularly a few rings even farther from center, considering their crap relationship.

The idea is that you pay into the rings but not out. In other words, OP and her parents would pay their support into her ring, and other friends and family would pay into their rings to further support them. Point is, inner rings don't pay outward. It's not on the one who's sick to comfort her husband, for example.

Now that she has passed on, her surviving husband is the center ring now. His mother strangely saying that he needed to pay his sister support violates this concept extremely.
 ... to be the kind of person who would take the clothing off a corpse's back ...

*Damn.*
So your grandmother wanted you to actually strip the clothes off your mother and hand her the suit before the cremation? How hideous
WTF. Did she expect that you get the suit from your mom's body and give it to her? 

I would answered "Well, you can drop dead and I'll buy you another one". What an insensitive cow.
Wait, was this the mother of the deceased?  It’s quite incredible that that would be on her mind if so.
I grew up in working with clients for Estates Wills and Trusts atty… I’ve seen all the vultures come out for almost every family dynamic and it is truly disheartening to see how people treat their supposed “loved ones”… your Grandmother reminded me of such an instance..  sorry you lost your mom so young 🫶
Don’t they often cut the clothing to get it on the body?  Due to rigor mortis and or swelling due to embalming fluids the body is not the easiest to manipulate into clothing
It's not all that easy to dress a dead body - usually they cut the clothing down the back to make dressing easier..  That suit wouldn't have been usable by anyone else.
This is actually so fucked up omg. So insensitive… was that your mom’s mother or grandma on the other side?
Does she not know that they cut the clothing up the back for the body? You think the mortician is flipping her over to wiggle a blouse over grandma’s head?
Sounds like your aunt needs a keeper!   Doesn’t appear to have the good sense God gave a goose.
My aunt stopped by to see her father shortly before he died and noticed the fancy, colorful pillowcases her sister had embroidered. 
Their father died an hour or so after my aunt’s departure. 

When the family gathered at my grandparents’ home, my grandmother asked everyone if there was something they wanted as a remembrance. My aunt sniffed, cried and asked for the pillowcases that had been under his head as he died. My grandmother asked, “Are you certain?” My aunt blubbered that she was. My puzzled grandmother handed her a plain, nondescript pair of pillowcases. My aunt’s weeping came to an abrupt halt, and my aunt asked why she had been given this set instead of the embroidered pair. My grandmother explained that she changed pillowcases every hour to ensure that my grandfather had a clean pair at all times.  Needless to say, my aunt left without them.
It was a very rude transition into total adulthood when my mother passed from cancer at 55. I was 27 and her POA (she was a single mom)  WHEN SHE WAS ADMITTED TO FUCKING HOSPICE her brother said, can I have her truck now, she is not going to be discharged. I no longer have any contact with the rest of her money hungry weido siblings.
When my aunt died her sister and brother-in-law told the rest of us we should just hand the keys to her house to the bank and tell them to throw all her stuff in a landfill. They refused to help sort through her stuff at all- until they remembered she had a huge shoe collection, at which point they abruptly decided that their daughter should come take a look and see if any would fit her. 

We donated almost all the shoes immediately and told them whoops, too late, I guess you should go check the landfill since that's where you said we should leave them. 

Nothing compared to what they did when my gran died (there was literally stuff in her house with name labels on it), but with her, at least they were in contact with her. They hadn't talked to my aunt in 20 years.
Yay your brother!!!
Better that my Uncle who took the watch off my Grandfather's wrist before the body was cold in front of my father, his older brother. He said he was just 'making sure the valuables were safe'. My Dad was too grief stricken to really believe he'd steal. But yeah, he robbed his own father's still warm body.

He also ruined the funeral but that's a whe other weird kettle of fish.
My mom was on bed rest because she had gotten pneumonia from dealing with her baby brothers funeral the previous month. My dad died on an overnight business trip and his friends broke the news to my mom and his mom and sister at 2 am. His sister waited till 11 am to come home, all showered and hair all done up. She walked into the room mom was in, told her "I hate to say this [mom's name], but you deserve this" and walked out. And then took groceries from our kitchen and went home. Other visitors were just shell shocked at this woman who was so uninterested in her own brothers death.
That's godawful. 

FIL saw one of his SIL doing something like that when his parents passed. 

When he and my MIL go (pray God it's not for many years), my husband and SIL will be the only people who can go into the house/inventory/go through. Which is a perfectly acceptable rule.
Oh my. That's awful
OMG.😱
Divorce not soon enough.
My Uncle's girlfriend of, at the time, 6 months, we'll call her Patty, walked around my grandmother's house on Christmas Day and tried to put dot stickers on everything she wanted when she dies. She tried to claim everything. My grandmother has 4 children, 11 grandchildren, and 6 great-grandchildren... Patty was offended when my other Uncle told her to gtfo and tried to say "she's old, she'll die soon, waste not want not"... it's been 7 years, and my grandmother is still alive, 86, and healthy as an ox. My uncle, unfortunately is still with Patty but nobody in the family likes her. Primarily because she made Nana cry on Christmas. It did inspire my grandmother to lock all her shit down and make it clear who was getting what. She asked me what I wanted. I told her I care more about her than her stuff. She pushed. I finally said I want the calendar from her kitchen and the poster she has pinned on her toilet door. That poster has been there since before I can remember. And the calendar has her handwriting on it. She also decided to leave me all her Andre Rieu DVDs and her Edmond's Cookbook from the 60s. 


Being honest, Patty has an opinion on everything and thinks the world needs to hear it. At my grandfather's funeral, Patty was confused why not all the grandkids were there. I have a restraining order against my sister for serious reasons, and my parents, Nana, and both Uncles support me in this. This was the first time she met me and she tried to insist that grudges are silly, that I must be overreacting, and I quote, "what kind of bratty b***h gets a restraining order against her own sister?" She said that one to my Dad, her boyfriend's older brother... not knowing he's my Dad. She went nuts when he shut her down, she used a racial slur against my mixed race cousin, not realising his Dad is also her boyfriend's brother, used a bunch of other slurs against the elderly with mental illnesses that lived in assisted care homes with my grandfather who was severely schizophrenic. My uncle doesn't come to many family events anymore because Patty is never invited and has meltdowns if he goes anywhere without her. Patty is in her 50s. She's a lost cause. I feel bad for my Uncle, but you can't help someone who doesn't want help.
When my mum passed we had TONS of neighbours who immediately hounded us, wanting to know when we’d sell her property. Like honestly so insensitive it’s insane! NTA.
My family has a man's ring, which belonged to my great grandfather (his birthstone) of my father's mother's side. It was passed to my grandmother, who passed it to my father, and then it was passed to my brother almost immediately as it's not worth much.

Like many heirlooms, it's meant to be passed down the line from father to son. My father passed it to my brother, fully knowing he was a drug addict. Well, eventually, he traded it for drugs my mother found out and was deeply upset as he also traded a ring she bought my father. I knew the person he traded it to (he'd pawned a few of my personal belongings to this guy before). 

I told the dude I wanted the rings back, and he gave me the price for my great grandfather's ring, but he refused to sell me back the other ring. I paid him, I think, $25 for the ring as he said he felt bad for me and I left. A few weeks later, my brother went into rehab. When he was released, he needed somewhere to live so my partner and I opened up our doors and let him live here. 

A few months passed, and my brother seemed to be doing OK. Then, one day, he confronted me with the ring I bought back, and he wanted it back. In the beginning, I said no. I bought it back therfore it was mine. He called my grandfather ( my dad's dad), who was pissed at me and demanded I give my brother back the ring. So I reluctantly did, but not before promising that he passed the ring on to my son, whose birthstone is the same as my great grandfather's regardless if my brother ever had a son or not. My brother agreed, so I handed over the ring again. 

My brother got back into drugs and eventually found a crackwhore to knock up. She eventually convinced my brother to trade the ring once again. Fast  forward a few years, and they ended up with a couple of kids, including a boy. For a spell, my brother sobered up (the mother is believed to be sober still), and he called the person he traded the ring to as the dude sobered up as well hoping to get the ring back. Buddy told him he sold the ring years ago. My brother  and girlfriend were heartbroken (according to him) his son wouldn't get the family ring. 

Little does anyone in the family know, the dude knew the story of the ring and called me as soon as my brother traded it. I, for a while, tried to help out some of my brother's friends get sober or for a place to sleep for the night, sometimes it was a hot meal or even a shower as they were mostly homeless. 

The dude, my brother, traded the ring to lived with my partner and I for about 3 months after his parents caught  him doing drugs in their house. So he gave me the ring as a thank you for the place to crash, and he promised he'd never tell my brother he'd given it back to me.

My son is almost old enough to get the ring. But I told him he needs to move out first before I'll give it to him. My mother lives with us currently and favors my brother, and if she ever found out I had the ring, I know she'd steal it back and give it to my brother in a heartbeat. In case you're wondering, after my brother traded the ring and I found out, I called my grandfather and did the biggest I told you so. We didn't speak for almost 10 years even though we were neighbors ( still had my partner and children visit as they were close to him until the day he died, we never rekindled our relationship).
>And then checked the coffin at the funeral and continued to ask about it. 

W

T

A

F

I’m so glad my family hasn’t had that level of vulture (so far)
This reminds me of something I read on Reddit where the OP’s wife died and at his funeral her dead husbands family demanded his wedding ring even though she bought it for him.  They insisted it was a family heirloom and she had no right to it.
My mom has 4 older siblings, mostly dysfunctional relationships with my mom being the baby. My mom ended up taking care of grandma after grandma had a stroke. Grandma’s house was a 2 flat and Aunt 1 lived upstairs. Aunt 1 was essentially sold the house for pennies under stipulation grandma (or her stuff) stayed until she passed. Aunt 1 getting the house meant she wasn’t left anything else. When grandma passed, my mom and I were with her at the hospital. As soon as aunt 1 and aunt 2 heard, they broke into grandma’s flat and took whatever they wanted. They were furious not to find her engagement ring but she had already given it to my mom because she knew how they’d be. Aunt 2 took grandma’s diamond earrings bc she had gifted them to grandma years earlier and “deserved them back.”  She was furious, and somewhat confused, when she took them to be appraised and was told they were CZ. Turns out grandma had switched the diamonds out a few years earlier and gave the diamonds to her son (my uncle.). Uncle had a custom ring made including the diamonds, which he wore in front of them for years. Only he, grandma and my mom knew. Not sure if aunts ever found out.
Create a Will and leave them $1. Then they can't say you left them out
The fact that the mom told the grieving widower to be nice to his sister because *she* was grieving *his wife* is WILD.
I’d be worried if his mom or any family member has a key to his place. I hope they don’t. Because I could totally see his mother letting his sister in to “browse” through the wife’s clothes.

“They were just going to be donated anyways!!”
What the actual fuck!? Horrible.
🤢 That poor lady
I am sure the relatives were excited to get pictures that they thought they would never see again.
    I would have.
That is so sad. My uncle had a ring that was given to him by someone special years before. It was a beautiful ring worth a lot of money and he said he wanted to be buried with it on. At his wake I overheard his daughter's husband say to her "did you get the ring off his finger before they closed it?" And she said  she did. I told my older sister immediately. I don't know if anything was done about it but I never forgot that or looked at my cousin and her husband the same again. It wasn't like he left her with nothing. He left her everything else he had which was a considerable amount.
My parents’ neighbor came over before my dad’s funeral, offered to stay to make sure no one broke in (ghouls are everywhere and do this). We came home and no one broke in, but discovered missing pieces of furniture (antiques). I went next door and saw the pieces on their screened porch, they weren’t home. Porch was unlocked, so my daughter and I moved everything back. Neighbor had the nerve to ask about it the next day. I told her that I’d had the police help me move it home, she dropped it after that.
The day my dad passed away, the coroner who came to the house to pronounce him asked my mom if she was going to sell his truck, could he buy it.
When my FIL passed, my estranged SIL immediately after the funeral asked my husband about the tractor that his dad had given to him a year earlier.  She had someone lined up to buy it. It's still in our garage used regularly.  This is common behavior for her, why she is estranged from us.
and shameless
It wouldn’t have to be a whole quilt, just a square that could be framed as homage to someone who had a great heart
I made my brother’s first child (nephew) a crib quilt with my late father’s shirts. Dad only ever wore plaid button up shirts to work and church. Short sleeve most of the year. He had dozens. They made a really cute quilt (just simple half square triangles). 

My nieces quilts (both very pink at my SIL’s request lol) have small pieces of a shirt sandwiched in with the batting as well.
My Mennonite ancestors always had a quilt made from your loved ones clothes after they passed. The entire attic at Grandmother,'s house was full of them,each with a label to let you know who it commemorated. And when they lived & died. That's a very nice idea for OP,choose just a few & follow through with the donation of the remainder. Stay away from theses family members,grief makes us easier to hurt. Just stay away,maybe NC forever. I know that's incredibly hard. For me as well.
     Went to the County Fair.  There was a quilt, that was made out of someone's Grandmother's old hankies. Some of those were hand embroidered.  It was so pretty.
That would be black mold.  Most others you can use to make penicillin with.
some people  are not capable of dealing with the word "no"
I like this
No theres no other reason she would tel her grieving son that her daughter was taking his wifes death hard and to let her out of some bullshit. Otherwise she would say please dont fight it's my birthday.  She went for the worst way possibly because she favors her daughter. Maybe that's why she grew up to be such a "cow".
That's some kind of 'A Christmas Carol' shit.
Well, have the funeral director do it, but yeah! That’s Grandma for you, the silly goose.  /s
Perfect response. Lol
Aren’t suits, dresses, & other clothes cut all the way up the back so that the deceased can be dressed?  Their range of motion is really limited, isn’t it?
Yes, my mother’s mother. She was certainly a special firecracker…
Thank you ❤️
They do! I used to work at a funeral home (not that one), but I didn’t think it wise to mention to my family.
I have no idea what was going on in her head. She’s always been a bit self-absorbed. I knew they would probably cut it (worked at a funeral home in my home state at the time as an admin), but I didn’t say anything because I didn’t want to put the picture in my sister’s head.
I’m a mortician and yes in most cases, clothes are cut up the back.
Smart grandma!
My cousin rang his mum when he stopped at his dads place and found him dead on the floor and didn't know what to do. While my aunt and uncle were not together at the time they had been married twice, spent more than 20 years together. 

Aunt arrived, physically stepped over the body, took most things of value that she could carry from the house (plus any drugs he had left in the house they were both addicts) then as she was walking out went oh yeah suppose you should call an ambulance or something and drove off.
WTAF? I am so sorry your grandma had to deal with that nonsense.
I have a great one. I am an only child with two children, my Father died when I was a child. While my Mother lay dying of bone cancer, suffering from dementia, and being given lots of powerful drugs, her selfish money-grubbing sisters changed her life insurance beneficiary from my name, which it had been for 30 years, and listed themselves. The money, not a whole lot (60K), was intended to go into college savings accounts to help us pay for college/house downpayments whatever for our children. My mother had been retired on disability for many years and this was the only monetary gift that she would be able to bestow upon her only grandchildren. The kicker? Neither of them needed the money in any way shape or form. I found out when after about 9 months of being inconsolable I contacted the life insurance agency to inquire about how to go about claiming the death benefit etc. Also, my Mother wanted my daughter to have her ashes. When she asked my Mom’s Sister, she ignored the text for months on end and then finally said she could have a ring made for her with the ashes. WTAF? More? They took every single solitary thing of hers and did what they wanted with it. I got nothing. My children got nothing. To all the selfish disgusting f*cks out there: how do you live with yourselves when you do things like this to your family? People you're supposed to love and care for? How do look at yourself in the mirror? How do you sleep at night? Also, these two have a history of this sort of behavior, they did it to my Mother after her Mother AND Father died. It has ALWAYS made me HATE MONEY! I know, I am a responsible adult who has always taken care of my responsibilities sensibly. But beyond that, I HATE how f*cking selfish it makes people. Disgusting. I realistically know that it's NOT the inanimate object, but the people themselves that are the selfish entitled pr*cks. Makes my blood boil! 🔥
Omg, that is awesome! 
Lmfao
Omg... that's horrible.  I'm so sorry.  I would have donated it to a charity before I gave him the keys.  What an AH.
The same thing happened to my mom. She was post surgery, not really fully present and the doctor told my sister and me that she had pancreatic cancer and might have 6 weeks. My brother  hearing that, convinced my mom right then  to sign over her car to him that night. He raced to her house and back with the deed.  But that wasn’t the most telling of his true character.
She managed to hang on for 5 months, when she needed to go into the hospital for a “line” to be inserted so i could give her iv pain meds directly. He refused to let us use “her” car to drive her there. It was winter in Wisconsin. He was and still is a heartless soul.  People are capable of the meanest actions and able to rationalize how they are justified, even to their own mom. It was eye opening.
Someone in my family got mad at her partner and punched him in the face. The day after his father died because he hadn’t secured the father’s car for them. A class act.
One hint:  move everything into storage beforehand.  

My husband and I had so much stuff we used to leave it out side our house for the Scrooge funeral scrounfers to pick up and save us the cost of moving.  

Once we had a guy who collected for church sales come by... we told him come and take all he wanted on the last day.  We still had three extra large storage containers.  

My goal is to give it all away before I die to prevent this.
But why is your Uncle still with her?
"My Uncle's girlfriend of, at the time, 6 months, we'll call her Patty, walked around my grandmother's house on Christmas Day and tried to put dot stickers on everything she wanted when she dies."

EWW at all, in the first place, BUT 6 DAMN MONTHS and you're doing that?! Nope
Patty would have gotten the mess slapped out of her and dragged out of Nana's house by her hair, uncle be damned.
Our neighbour passed away a year ago during the night, she was lovely and is very missed.
Her kids had both fortunately been there when she died at home, the next day an unmarked SUV had parked across the street.

Some had noticed it for weeks, most ignored it. *There have been some new neighbours as some older people have downsized and moved, so people visiting and contractors coming to fix up older model homes.*

Turned out to be a real estate agent from the city who had heard she was dying. 
So, he would drive up to see how she was “faring”, he would drive up to get news on her health…

He had somehow found out an ambulance had been there the night before and as the hurst left the driveway in the morning the SOB walked up the driveway to hand out his f*cking card to the kids who just lost their mother!

The daughter was screaming so loudly at him several neighbours came out to investigate and they called the cops on him.

We later heard that when their dad died in 2020 at the height of the housing boom in our area he had harassed their mother so much she had called police 6 times to have him removed from the property!!
He kept telling her she would be a millionaire if she would just sell the house!!

Her will stated explicitly who she wanted to sell her home. Thankfully the kids went with that agent, but they also had to stop their aunt from breaking into the house to steal items she wanted. 

Some people lose all sense of decorum during a death of a family member and can only see greed. 

NTA OP, please donate the clothes, block mom and sister for your mental health.
Realtors will do this without shame. They pore through the obits and look up and see if the person owned property, then they hound the survivors to sell. It’s disgusting.
I live next door with my in-laws in a very dense city with a huge parking problem. My late father in-law was disabled and had a designated parking spot by the city on the street below our building. Neighbors didn't wait hours to pass after the funeral before asking us again and again when the parking spot would be freed.
My mom’s next door neighbor did the same thing. A few days after she died he had his daughter message me to ask when we’d be selling her house/land.
My husband still gets offers on the condo he inherited from my FIL when he passed almost two years ago. It pissed him off daily. They've mostly stopped after he cussed a few vultures out over the phone, but it was CRAZY the first few months after he passed. Like, do y'all hear yourselves?? Let the bereaved grieve in peace for the love of God!
Wow that's really complicated. Good thing you have your family ring back
The immediate family has been absolutely fine. There's only a few of us. My aunt never married and my dad had just me and my brother (each of us has 3 boys). So it's been low drama.  We just don't care about stuff that much. My grandma loved jewelry and I just wanted one piece, though as the only granddaughter it's basically all mine. I don't know where this relative got the idea that the ring was hers, but it was a lot of drama.
Jokes on them, I don't have fuck shit worth anything to them.

(I'm working on the will thing though, mainly to protect my pets from ending up in their care.)
I was working for a really great boss a few years ago. He was the oldest of three sons, and his dad lived with him and his wife. His two younger brothers couldn't have cared less about dad. Then dad died. All Hell broke loose.

Middle son immediately demanded a copy of dad's will and all relevant paperwork. He held up the funeral for around six weeks while he had a lawyer go over everything with a fine-tooth comb. (No, I don't know how he could do that, but I guess it's legal in this state.)

Anyway, the will specified that sons #2 and #3 got $10 each. Period. They couldn't do a damn thing about it. My ex-boss got dad's house and property, which he sold to the first person to make an offer. He just wanted to be done with it so he could get on with his life.
I genuinely had to re-read that part 3 times because I thought there's no way I read it right.
I once had a "friend" whomst I only knew over the internet tell me my mother's cancer diagnosis was harder on her than on me because I wasn't around as much and couldn't game with her as much as I used to, which was apparently the only source of joy and stability in her life.

Suffice to say I didn't talk to her again. Some people are just so unhinged they seem to warp reality around them. Don't give your sister shit.
Behold the Golden Child
People are clueless. I had more than one person tell me they thought they missed my husband more than I did.  He was a great guy and many of his friends/relatives saw him as a trusted person to confide in.  But what the actual f**k kind of thing is this to say to a new widow?
If my sister's husband died, I would be upset and I would grieve. He's part of our family and I love him. 

I would never in a million years compare my pain to hers. They wouldn't even be on the same planet. 

That part sent me into a rage.
I am not a violent person by any means but hearing that would have made me throw hands of epic proportions.
I was wondering when this would come up. That was the first thing I noticed out of the whole post.
This was my first thought too! Change locks ofthe house or put a lock on the literal closet...
Oh yes. Good point.
Right? Absolutely horrible. I couldn’t imagine doing that to anyone, let alone a family member. The other staff were all horrified too
I didn't understand why she just didn't give them to those whose close family they were at the ethnic organization meeting. A couple of them are people I've met a few times that are related through my great-grandpa's sister, who was married 3x; I had photos for a couple of her descendants but not another.
You have got to be kidding me!! That's the most outrageous thing I've heard of. People are just...nuts.
For months after my husband died I had complete strangers knocking on my door asking if I wanted to sell the truck. Of course the offers were all extremely low ball. $800 for a extended cab, full bed Dodge Ram with no dents, rust or peeling paint, 8 cylinder 4WD was my "favorite" offer.
Should've reported that asshole to the state board.
Good grief, that's cold.
Or cheese
It's like adult toddlers throwing a tantrum at not being able to do what they want. It's what makes me think that if there are aliens out there, when they saw Humanity, they fucked off.
People are so weird sometimes! 

BTW my grandma was buried in high heels because she had an inner ear condition that affected her balance and couldn’t wear them. My mom and aunts bought her a special pair when she passed. You did good for your mom
That's hilarious!! I like your grandma!!
I was there when my beautiful MIL passed. 

Next day FIL phoned us to come and get her jewellery. I just physically/emotionally couldn't. By the time we could manage it, it was a week later and it had been ravaged by others; including my despicable bil and his wife (who made my MILs life and end of life worse with their lack of care, help and blatant lies). 

I did get a couple of pieces that meant something to us (worth Nada but passed down a few generations) for our kids. 

People disgust me with their money grubbing. I'd give it all up for more time with my beloved MIL.
Wow, just wow.

That behaviour certainly beats the behaviour of an aunt of my mother. Family legend says she cleaned out the family home of antique furniture while everyone was at their mother's funeral. Including family heirloom jewellery. Some people are just 100% class acts.

OP: put your mum on a time out and block your sister. Donate your wife's clothing to the charity she spoke of. I'm very sorry for your loss and the revolting extended family you are stuck with. I hope you have support around you.
Omfg, I will never understand how some people can be so disgusting and horrible. So sorry she did that.
...fuck.
People suck.
I was too worried about my mom and her last days to really process it properly. In hindsight I wish I would have said some snarky or well placed words, but at the time all I could do was just walk away and  compartmentalize it. But the good news is that I have my chosen family now, with my amazing kids and my siblings. And don't have to deal with any of that BS. Cheers and be well friend :)
I would have pushed it off a cliff before handing him the keys
She put a dot sticker on him
Stubborness I reckon.
It was the first family event. She was meeting MOST of us for the first time. She's so messed up from drugs that she met us all again for the first time at a funeral. She did not make a good second first impression then either.
I was following Patty and taking off the stickers and my cousins were facing up with my Uncle.
My mother passed away in 2018.  My stepfather in 1998.  Around 2005 mother decided to sell her house.  She wanted to downsize.  We cleared an area on our land bought by my husband and I, took her to look at trailers, that is what she wanted.  Found one double wide basically brand new and furnished. Couple decided to build a house.  Made plans and all.  I left state for 2 weeks to go see granddaughter just born.  By time I got back younger brother had talked her into buying a single wide dump from his stepdaughter.  I say dump b/c floors had to be replaced due to dog piss coming up in the cracks as well as carpets and flooring underneath that and other repairs. My older brother had been handed their other house (it was paid off too).  Younger brother had been given 7 acres out of 14.  He did end up with all 14 acres thou.  Anyways the last 3 yrs before she died, neither brother would help her.  Mind you she lived right next door to younger brother on land she gave him.  I lost so many days of work taking her to doctors appointments or wherever she needed.  Brother also quit mowing her yard, said he couldn't walk that far.  Fat slob didn't have to walk. He could have used his riding lawn mower, do his and then hers.  She had  to pay someone to do it .  When she lived in town I would drive in and do her yardwork, even thou older brother lived just up the street ( house that was given to him).  If he did anything she had to pay him.  Sorry so long . The day after she passed my sister in law has her sister going thru her trailer and told her to pick out what she wanted (the sister told me say if funeral). Anyways the sister told her no that I should be the one.  I went over to ask to see the will (before funeral), dear sister -in-law told me that I wasn't in it, quote "that she had worked her ass off taking care of my mom and that I wasn't her daughter, she was".  I just looked at her and said really, what happened to all the LOVE  you proclaimed to have. It got worse as well.  I told my brother all I wanted was my and my children's baby pictures, a quilt I had made for my mother and some of the jewelry she wanted me to have.  Then I was told thru a mutual friend I was not welcome to her wake at church after funeral,  Hell I didn't know about it to begin with, nor did I know where the church was located.  A few weeks I received a letter from clerk of court about my mother's will.  My husband went to town and got a copy of it since I was most assuredly named in it. I was supposed to have gotten a third of everything.  My sister in law was to get her car only.  Well my brother wouldn't let me have what I asked for unless I sighed the affidavit that stated he carried out her instructions.  I refused so he threw the pictures out, sure he is using quilt and jewelry has been distributed to his wife and her family,   I cut ties with all of them.
Despicable.  If that happened to me,  I'd take down every one of their names and put it on a Do Not Call list for when I was ready to sell.
My mother is alive,  but my father passed almost two years ago.  Though my mother is still living in the house, my sisters and I get text messages from random numbers about making an offer on the house all the time.
Oh about 25 years 😉
My grandma had a nice house on a few acres in our town, and it was appalling after she passed how soon acquaintances and neighbors were asking my grief-stricken dad when he was going to be selling the property. I get that housing especially nice properties are scarce in our town but.... damn, ppl..... give it a minute before you start circling like vultures.
As a widow, that would have been enough to never talk to either of them again. OP I've kept a few (ok, a lot) of my husband's clothes because they remind me of specific things about him - if you want to donate them to the worthy cause, do so, if you want to hang on to a couple of things, do so. You have my condolences.
Agreed. I was honestly shocked when I read that. NTA OP. Definitely NTA
Yeah, it might be enough to make a rendition of the Red Wedding really quickly.
My dad just died after battling Metastatic Pulmonary Adenocarcinoma. I was privileged enough to take care of him as he entered into hospice and ultimately passed away. After everything he did for me throughout my life I wanted the last moments of his life to be filled with as much dignity as possible. 

I just can’t imagine being so horrible.
That’s not even the worst of what she did in the next few years.  I could write a book on her outrageous behavior.
When my mom died a friend had a police officer steak out back in one out front. One of my friends coworkers was at the house watching T.V. . So people would not come and steal stuff.
Wow, so very kind of them.... :/
He retired soon after, thankfully
Thank you! Your mom and aunts did too!

(I don’t know why, but my phone wants to correct “mom” to “mlm.”)
Me too
I had a similar thing with my Aunt, we lived states away and could not afford to attend the funeral, with 3 young children and me a SAHM. 
Many months later my mum paid for us to visit for Xmas. 
Like you, everything was picked over, but a string of “pearls” and her engagement ring which was way too small for anyone else’s finger. 
I got the last laugh though as the string of pearls was presumed to be fake, cos they were too perfect, but were indeed proven to be real and worth a few thousand 😂
When my grandparents die, I am calling up my stepbrother's ufc friend to be private security on their house until it is all settled and done civilly.
My Great Aunts step children didn't even tell us she'd died. We found out from the nursing home when they returned the Christmas card with "this resident has died". They took all the heirlooms and sold them. All we got were her ashes and they insisted we pay for the shipping. They completely disregarded her will entirely.
EDIT: Autocorrect
Yeah it was pretty wild. That part of my family is known for conflict. We hadn't spoken to the aunt in years and my cousin naturally took his mums side so we hadn't seen or heard from him in awhile. This little event made him swap sides. Thankfully parts of the family stepped in and helped him through it. The police were not impressed by her behaviour.
My husband said at his grandmother's funeral. A wife of one of his Uncles pulled a U-Haul up to the house & took almost everything. This is one of many reasons when we visit he visits his parents and not extended family.
Are we related? Was that Jessie Burnett?
My mother's youngest sister took all of their mother's china, silverware etc. Their parents had been married for 60 plus years and had been gifted really nice things over the years.  I remember a beautiful 50th anniversary plate. The sister denied taking stuff for years until it began to appear in her own kids' homes.
Toddlers who always grabbed first and said mine!!
Lol... that too.
Ok, now that's funny! 🤣🤣
Fucking busted my gut laughing at this
LOLOL perfection 😂😂
I’m so sorry.
Petty me would go with that plan but since it was given from the city to be used exclusively by my father in law it had to be returned to common use. It did took few weeks, huge bureaucracy is also part of our lives and it was out of our hands, but that didn't stop annoying neighbors pestering us.
It's been since 2015 since my mom passed. My dad still has her clothes. It takes time, whether it's months or years, but people deserve to grieve in their own time. I'm sorry for OP's and your loss. His sister and mom for taking her side are way out of line! I hope he finds peace in this time
I’m sorry for your loss, you both sound blessed to have had each other. 

Fuck cancer
If you do write a book, please share it here so I can read it… but if you have more outrageous stories, I would love to hear them!
Would it fit in on the entitled people or entitled neighbors sub?
Sadly, family should always get someone they can trust to be in the house during a wake and a funeral. Thieves read the obits too. And wayward family members should be arrested for theft.
Sadly, all emergency services are well acquainted with your Aunt's kind of behaviour. It might raise a few eyebrows, but I don't think they'd be overly shocked.

I'm glad your Cousin got support and eventually saw the light. That would have been hard to realise the truth about his mum.
Gotta love family, hey!! Some people seem to have absolutely no shame. How could you look at the stolen items in your home and feel happy? I don't understand it!
It was in the 1920s in Sydney Australia, so I'm not sure if we're related?
I would slowly but surely start taking the pieces back and when she saw them be like yeah, I got those when mom passed. Don't you remember?
Sorry you went through that.  Hope things are better now.
It's been just over 14 years since my younger brother passed at just 22 and I still have multiple pieces of his clothes.
Thank you for your kind words. ❤️

Fuck Cancer for real! Hate this shit.
Luckily, it’s been 20+ years now and I’ve put it in my rear view mirror.
Potentially. Was the surname of the family Graham?
I don't blame you… sometimes it's better to leave the trash permanently out by the curb. :)
Omg if yall are related that would be weirdly cool. Lol
Honestly not sure. My mother's mother's maiden name was McNamara. I don't even know what side of the family the light fingered aunt was from. There were links to country NSW, but the family story is vague, my mother is dead and I'm estranged from the sisters that would know.
AITA for telling my dad there will be no making up for missing my high school graduation?
I'm (18m) graduating high school at the end of this month. My dad dropped the bomb on me two nights ago that his stepdaughter (14f) has an award ceremony for some competition she entered and won in another state on that same day and that she really wants him to be there. He told me he couldn't possibly make it to both and since his wife and their children together will be going, he needs to be there too. He told me he would make it up to me and we could celebrate another time.

I still live with him (not for much longer). My mom died when I was 7 and my dad got married again when I was 11 or 12. It's been a few years anyway. His stepdaughter never knew her bio dad, so my dad has accepted her as his own. And he has prioritized her a lot in the last 5/6 years. It doesn't always show in the most obvious ways but it can be felt. Father/son time was put on an indefinite hiatus and instead dad told me we needed to include her in our time together but he also spent time with just her for father/daughter time. I brought it up to my dad and he told me I wasn't exactly making an effort to be closer to her so he wanted us all to bond and didn't want me to just focus on my relationship with him.

He has attended her dance things instead of my basketball games if they're on at the same time. It doesn't matter if mine was known about first, he will still skip my stuff to go to hers.

He will take us on family days and whenever he and his wife say "kids can choose" he picks her choices over mine. He claims it's because they will be the most fun for everyone but really, he even says it afterward, anything his little princess wants.

Our refrigerator and our shower broke at the same time. His stepdaughter's birthday was coming up so he took money from my birthday fund to pay for that stuff and so his stepdaughter would definitely get what she wanted (this barbie house thing and a whole fashion set and they were I think dad said $250). He didn't get all the money back by the time my birthday came around so instead he bought me a $30 gift card for Steam when he had promised me a new monitor and keyboard for my computer (that was a gift from my grandparents).

When my dad told me he wouldn't be at my graduation to go and support her, I told him there is no making up for that and he can forget about being included in my life going forward. He told me he would make it up to me and I told him I will always come second to his little princess and I'm not going to be okay with that. I told him he's discarded me for the last time. Dad begged me to be reasonable but I walked away. Then I invited both sets of grandparents who agreed to come. His wife told me I could have come with them and I don't need to attend the ceremony but could support "my sister". I said her daughter's not my sister and I do not want to support their family anymore and I will be out of their hair soon. She called me selfish and told me I can't deny her daughter a dad. 

AITA?
Welcome to /r/AmITheAsshole. Please view our [voting guide here](https://www.reddit.com/r/AmItheAsshole/wiki/faq#wiki_what.2019s_with_these_acronyms.3F_what_do_they_mean.3F), and remember to use **only one** judgement in your comment.

OP has offered the following explanation for why they think they might be the asshole:

 > I told my dad there is no making up for missing my graduation. He offered to and maybe he would actually do it and I'm not giving him a chance. I sort of just shut down everything after he told me and that might be a dick move to do since he was trying, maybe.

Help keep the sub engaging!

#Don’t downvote assholes!

Do upvote interesting posts!

 [Click Here For Our Rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/AmItheAsshole/about/rules) and [Click Here For Our FAQ](https://www.reddit.com/r/AmItheAsshole/wiki/faq)

##Subreddit Announcements

Follow the link above to learn more

---

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose/?to=/r/AmItheAsshole) if you have any questions or concerns.*

*Contest mode is 1.5 hours long on this post.*
I hope you pointed out to your father that while trying to make up for his step daughter having a loser father that he has indeed become a loser to his own child, how ironic.  NTA
NTA Your father's wife felt your best option was to miss your own graduation to support her child. That's the way to make you feel included in a family. (this is sarcasm by the way)

Two children, two events, two parents- that is one parent per event. There may be a reason for your Dad to go to other event if say wife scared to drive. But then she should be supporting you if ahead bothered to build that relationship.

You're right. Your Dad has too much to make up for and no history of doing it.

Edit: Ask your Dad's wife why it is OK to deny you any parent at all so her daughter can have two.
NTA “Can’t deny her daughter a dad” what about you? You lost your dad too…
NTA.

>I told him he's discarded me for the last time.

That's the key point here: it's not just about this one incident.

>His wife told me I could have come with them and I don't need to attend the ceremony

The same applies to her child. They could have come with you.

>She called me selfish and told me I can't deny her daughter a dad. 

She and her daughter have deprived you of one.
Wow what a horrible way to keep showing you you don't matter to them.

Totally NTA. And congrats on the freedom that awaits you. 

I'm impressed by your clarity of thinking took me much longer to get that level of understanding.

If not done already get your plans started or refined further. The shame they are hiding may cause some additional grief and manipulation.

You got this, good luck. Life is very sweet without constant disappointment
Oh God, I felt this in my soul and it reminded me of my own childhood.  NTA

It's his job to be there for you.  It's his job to be your dad and I'm so fucking sorry he's failing at that and doubling down when it's pointed out.

IDK if you need to hear this but don't ever let yourself feel guilty for going NC after this, if you decide to.  He decided you weren't worth his time as a child, so you've decided that he's not worth your time now.  That's valid.
Oh my God!  What the heck?  You should skip your graduation?? What?   Really?  No.  I would cut these toxic people out.  You are obviously the afterthought.  They don't consider your feelings, but they demand that you make concessions and sacrifices for the golden child of the family.  No.  The moment they treated you like that, you should have went to live with your grandparents.  Do they see this?  What do they think?
NTA

It's great he accepted bis step daughter has his own. But he shouldn't forget his existing kid for it.

Great that your grandparents will attend! And good, you communicated your feelings clearly to your father. He needs to know the consequences of his behaviour.
Massive NTA. Besides the fact that that's his step daughter, highschool graduation trumps essentially all childhood activities in priority of attendance by parents.
I agree with you. There is no coming back from this. What other milestones does your father plan on missing for you? Wedding? Grandchildren? 

It's better to cut your losses as soon as you're able to and move on to avoid other disappointing moments down the road. You are wise to catch this now instead of pushing it down. 

HS graduation can also be your liberation party. 

NTA.
NTA. Your stepmother doesn't want you to deny her daughter a dad, but she has absolutely no issue denying you YOUR dad. A reasonable woman would horrified seeing her husband choose someone over his child, she'd force him to go. I wish you all the best moving forward, without any of them.
I would leave as soon as you can move with one of your grandparents and definitely go go no contact
I really feel for you, your Dad sounds like a top AH.

I hope you enjoy your graduation and so glad that your grandparents can make it to celebrate.

I think you should show your dad this thread, I also think you should go low contact with all of them so they can cause you no more hurt x
NTA

Oh, she can't deny her daughter a dad but she's sure as hell fine with denying her stepson a dad.

I'm glad you still have your grandparents support and don't blame you at all for just walking away as soon as you can. Your dad has made things pretty damn clear.
The only thing I can say is thank God you're out.  I presume you are going to be staying with the grandparents rather than your sperm donor.

NTA.
NTA. Your father has consistently shown you aren’t a priority in the family. He’s had plenty of opportunities to show you otherwise and has chosen your stepsister every time. Congratulations on your graduation and enjoy celebrating it with your grandparents x
As a 30 year old British guy I’ll go on his stead and be the dad you need son
“Really? Because you all seem to have no problem denying *me* a dad.” NTA.
Show this thread to your father. Here's my message: Dad, you are a massive AH if you miss your son's graduation. WTF is wrong with you?
NTA

Graduating HS is a big milestone.

It's creditable your Dad wants to be there for his stepdaughter.

He needs to maintain balance though & I feel he should have made time for a once in a lifetime thing for you.

I hope you still enjoy your day & many congratulations!

Edit spelling
NTA you also deserve a dad and its painfully obvious now that neither give a shit about you.

I'd suggest going LC to NC asap for your own sake and healing, years of neglect leave deep scars that you might not be aware of yet.
NTA, can you move in with your grandparents now? If so I would and I’d cut your “father” aka sperm donor out of your life and he can go spoil his brat, sorry his little princess
NTA 
my aunt & uncle have three kids all in extracurriculars. I lived with them for over a year and what would happens is sometimes the kids schedules would overlap to where a band concert and a dance recital would happen simultaneously. What they did is divide the support. They wanted to make sure that the kids all got some support at their events so one would go to the band concert and one would go to the dance recital. This was a common occurrence and still is. 
That being said hearing that your dad's logic is "the rest of the family is there so I need to be too" is an insane take. One child should not get 100% support when multiple events are happening at the same time. The step daughter ALREADY has the support of her mother and other siblings. Your dad needs to be there to support you. Divide and conquer. You shouldn't be left with nothing and with no one, especially since you talked to your dad and made it clear that you wanted him there. Besides you're right. Graduation is a once (maybe twice) in a life time event. Vs an award ceremony which happens far more often. This is one of your last mile stones of childhood and the beginning of your milestones for adulthood. 
Divide and conquer. He should be there.
NTA. Your dad made his bed with his new family and now gets to lay in it. I'm sorry he's put you so low on his priority list and I'm glad you have the support of your grandparents. At least dad can never say he doesn't understand why you don't keep in touch once you're 18!
YOU can't deny HER daughter a dad????  I'm so f*king angry over that comment that I could just spit!! My ex a-hole's wife was like this. My son hasn't spoken to his father in years. I'm so sorry, OP. I just want to give you a big hug!!! 💗

Edit:  NTA, but your "dad" and his wife sure are!!!!!
NTA. You can't get back a once in a lifetime event. You were right to tell him you won't get over it. He obviously always prioritises his step daughter. Your step mother is way out of line with her comment..

Hopefully you can move out soon and create a new life for yourself.
NTA.  The obvious compromise for the conflict is for him to attend your graduation and his wife attend her daughter’s event.  That he fails to see this says it all.
NTA…my dad skipped my high school graduation and left early from my college graduation, before I walked. I texted him asking if he really left early and he said he wanted to beat traffic. It was the last text/time I ever spoke to him. I am 41, with a wife and child he will never meet. He has no other grandchildren. My brother and sister see him regularly and I hear he lives 10 miles from me.
He tried so many times to call, text, write. Send me money, gifts. Everything was blocked, ripped up or immediately donated.
You don’t need people in your life like that.
NTA - Run when you graduate and remember this in a few years when you get married and have kids, cause they always want back in your life at that point. Hopefully your grandparents will take you in. Obviously you weren’t a priority to him, return the favor. Move out and block him.
NTA...my son's Dad had his HS graduation and his daughters 8th grade grad on the same night. The 8th grade started 45 minutes before the HS grad. 2 different Mom's FYI and 2 different school systems. He was at his daughters for like 15-20 minutes then got to our son's with minutes to spare. His daughter and her Mom told him HS took priority and to just go to our son's but he did his best to be there to see his daughter then come see his son. That's working it out. That's a parent doing his best to be there for both.
*He told me he would make it up to me*

*She called me selfish and told me I can't deny her daughter a dad.*

Tell you dad that he no longer has to feel guilty about raising you because it’s apparently ok if they deny his son a father. NTA. Ask your grandparents if you can move in with them temporarily.
You're not an asshole at all!! You've been treated unfairly. I know how that feels, and it's far worse because she has both parents there, when you have neither. He knows that, and still continues to set her as a higher priority. Maybe you should write him a long message explaining detailed incidents of this behavior, and how it makes you feel. Something he can read more than one time if he needs a reminder. And hopefully he is willing to change. My dad wasn't, but now he's alone and regretting it.. yet distracting himself with vacations and alcohol.
He begged you because he knows if you walk away and cut contact he'll have to face the fact he fucked up, and when your family all talk about the good things you do in life what your doing in college, marriage, kids and all other life events and he doesn't want to be the reason of that so he's tryna beg so you don't do that,

Your step mum is a vile woman no self respecting woman would let a man all but abandon their bio kids just because their child didn't have a daddy growing up and if she even for a second thinks she is in the right she needs to get checked out, and her daughter is being set up to fail coz one day mummy and daddy are gonna throw her out to the real world because they can't deal with the entitlement they caused by always bending to her wim and making sure they are there for every tiny thing.

Forgot to add you are 1000% NTA your dad is and he'll realize it way too late
NTA - he is absolutely wrong.  But now you know his priorities and can proceed accordingly.  I know you resent your stepsister, but do you have any relationship with your half siblings?

Congratulations on graduating!  I hope you can remember that you have the support of your grandparents, and it's not your fault that your dad is an idiot who makes bad choices.
NTA! I have never spoken up on here before but this resonates with me, although in my case I was the stepchild who was daddy’s girl to my stepdad up til he had his own child by my mom. My mom also adored me til their daughter came. Then I was nothing but the maid, the verbal and physical punching bag and the scapegoat for both of them. With that said, I had NO trouble believing this happened. 
 I waited until I was 30 to go no contact with my family. Don’t make my mistake. Go, graduate highschool, then do whatever you need to do to get away and stay there. Any one who can put you aside for someone who isn’t blood doesn’t deserve you. I had to learn the hard way. As a new, first time mom I can’t imagine leaving my son to graduate alone OR expecting my partner to abandon his daughter and solely focus on our child. Blended families do exist, we just aren’t all lucky enough to have one. 
 Congratulations on graduating and moving on to bigger and better things. I never got this experience and know how much missing it still hurts at 35 years old. Don’t miss it, don’t let them spoil it, and damn sure don’t let anyone tell you you’re wrong for putting it first. You earned this, you deserve to celebrate after all that hard work. I mean that. 
 I’m not YOUR mom, but I am A mom and I am as proud of you as I would be of my own baby boy. Get out there and get that diploma handed to you!
NTA. Oh hell no. I'm furious for you. You are not being 'unreasonable' or 'selfish'. Not at all.
My Dad also chose his new family over me. When I got taken from my mom for abuse, his new wife didn't want him to take me. The state made me Live in a detention center. That's where I spent most of my senior year. I didnt even graduate since I was in a real jail with real criminals.

I know how you feel. The worst part is he probably doesn't even care. He chose a woman over his child.

Go no contact, and don't make the mistake I did. When he contacts you later wanting to make up time, don't do it.
He's doing it to get laid. I am sorry for you. Go NC.
so much NTA. wtf is wrong with your family?! go lc/nc and protect your (mental) health 🫶🏻
NTA. I think you handled this as well as possible. Your father has been prioritizing his new daughter, and apparently your stepmother thinks she can deny you a dad.
NTA, the woman and your father ATA. You can skip your graduation to support her? Clearly they have no regard for your milestones. Glad your grandparents are coming through and hope they can support you in everything you do.
NTA

Your dad is an asshat
When he gets older and needs someone  to help  take care of him, you have the pleasure  of choosing  his nursing home
NTA- If your grandparents are coming to your graduation ask if you can move with them that day. Let your dad return to an empty house. See if he even notices that you are gone. I am proud of you as is much of this usually snarky thread. PM your venmo so that I can send you a small graduation gift.
NTA

So your father's wife suggests that you skip your HS graduation and go to her daughters competition award ceremony. Talk about selfish.

Ask your father exactly how he thinks he can make it up for missing your HS graduation.  What can he possibly do to compensate the deliberate act of missing out on his only son's HS graduation.

Of course, the sensible solution is for your fathers wife to go with her daughter to the award ceremony, and your father can go to your graduation - each parent supports their own child and no-one is left out.

I am sorry for your loss of a father - cherish your grandparents and hopefully everyone can cut out "deadbeat dad and the do-overs" and live happily without the additional stress.
Does your sister realise what is going on? Have you spoken to her?
NTA: let me guess if you were to challenge him to pull up his photo album there is an extremely disproportionate amount of photos of her or him and her vs you or you and him. Make it a family game.


That aside they're just making excuses and rationalizing the favoritism so that they don't feel the guilt in acknowledging that you lost your mom and got put on the back burner by your dad.


I really hope and pray his princess's bio dad doesn't pop back into the picture and she does a 180 or pull a "I know you raised me but I want bio dad to walk me down the aisle." Who am I kidding? I love drama and karma. In ten years I'll be looking for such a story. 
NTA, his step-daughter was going with her mom and siblings. There was no need for him to go too. 

Even if this was a one time thing, his decision wouldn't make sense, but this is clearly a pattern. I don't blame you for reaching the breaking point.
Based on the info provided I would do the same as when high school is done and on way to college I would cut them off altogether
> His wife told me I could have come with them and I don't need to attend the ceremony but could support "my sister".

WTAF? How about her daughter missing HER thing because she doesn't need to attend the ceremony and could support her brother? I suppose THAT never occurred to anyone? 

>She called me selfish and told me I can't deny her daughter a dad.

Pot, kettle. She's the selfish one, denying YOU a dad.

NTA. But boy your father & his wife are.
NTA. You communicated to him that this is an important achievement for you, and he's the ahole that doesn't see how much it matters to you.
NTA, and start preparation for moving out to your grandparents once HS is over. Depending on what are your next steps regarding education/trade/work etc, it still would be wise to gather your things that you want to keep and take them to your grandparents. Your documents, your mom's staff to remember, photos etc. If you want to get out of his life, don't leave any things you want to keep at his house.
Nta. But send your dad this sub and also let him know that your high school graduation is a once in a lifetime event but she can win awards at anytime
Send me the invite I will come to graduation I will be clapping cheering the loudest coz am proud of you!! 

Am sorry ur family r tw*ts x
Before moving out, I'd really tell dad "I hope your former wife, my mom, sees everything you've been to me in the past years. And guides me all throughout my remaining years to live without you."
>She called me selfish and told me I can't deny her daughter a dad. 

They sure denied the son his actual bio dad.
NTA. Normally I go for ESH when it comes to disagreements of a similar nature but this is a really shitty thing for him to do to you.

To walk a mile in your shoes, I would be devastated.  And he has the gall to ask you to be reasonable.  Pffft
[deleted]
You can't deny her daughter the right to a dad??? Ok but they have no problem denying you your own father and time with him. I have to wonder if Step mom puts in even a 1/4 of the effort into her relationship with you that your dad puts into her daughter. 
Her kid now has 2 parents who cater to her every whim at your expense....but you seem to have now lost both of yours because they are selfish AHs.

Leave, go NC when you graduate. I hope your mom was able to leave you something when she passed to help with finances for school so you don't have to rely on him for anything. Live your life, be happy, get therapy for everything you've been through and thrive.
The best thing you can do is thrive and succeed and leave them in the trash where they belong. And when he inevitably realizes what he's lost, and tries crawling back, tell him to go and mind his little princess...the only kid that's mattered to him for the last 8 years
He's overcompensating.
NTA

Tell your dad he is no longer going to be your dad in this life; and you can make it up to each other in your next lives.

Actually, your dad stopped being your dad a long time ago. Maybe it's time you consider denying him a son since he has denied you a dad. Say you can all make it up to each other after you are done on earth, and that's your final decision. Say you're not going to budge. It's either this or that now, OP. Unless you give him a piece of his own mind, he isn't going to change; or rather I'd say, forget about him already, move out, and start building your own life. Tell your dad you won't need him for any of your milestones anymore.
If we take away the step part and not worry about the biology this is still awful. Most families and sets of parents have a ‘divide and conquer’ approach when things fall on the same day. One parent does one thing and another parent does another.  The fact that his wife didn’t even consider this to say ‘hey. You go to sons grad I will go to daughters ceremony’ is very telling of what kind of relationship you have had with her and how she sees you. You’re an after thought and I would never look back once I was financially stable and able. Very sorry.
NTA - thank goodness for grand parents! Congrats on graduating! May this be a step to many a great experiences!
Ew wtf is wrong with your dad and step mom? Seriously? She said you should go to her daughters super unimportant ceremony and skip out on your graduation because it doesn't matter? Yeah step mom,  we know it doesn't matter to YOU, clearly
NTA.   I applaud your maturity to express yourself so very succinctly and logically. I could not have been that skilled at your age. Someday you will have children, and you will make better decisions as a father. As for your father, I am sad that he has not the recognition that his choices have alienated you from the family and caused such pain. Perhaps there will someday be a time for you both to reunite and for him to ask for forgiveness. You sound like a man who has a heart, so maybe you both could reconnect. In the meantime, solidify your plans, find your path, and keep your head held high. Congratulations on your graduation!
Yeah, but she can deny a son his dad without any problem. NTA

Go live with grandparents. The next time they go on a family trip, move your stuff out.  Leave your bedroom bare for them to find when they get back
[deleted]
Does your dad get social security for you because of your mom? If so, then he is 8 times more the asshole. If so, see if you can get that money for school.(college). I really don’t know how that works.
Good luck.
OP, my heart breaks for you. A graduation is important. 

I am so sorry your father has disappointed you so many times. 

I would advise temporarily moving in with either of your grandparents, till you find your footing. And go NC with your Dad. He isn’t someone worth being in touch with. 

Make sure you get all your important documents too, and leave home asap. 

Good luck, kid. Rooting for your success and you.
 as a school social worker getting ready to attend the graduation ceremony for several students I care for who, for various reasons, will not have a parent or other important family member present at that ceremony,  I am having a pretty strong emotional reaction to this. If there was ever a time to make a kid feel important and celebrated, it's this milestone. Dad has dropped the ball big time and I feel sorry for him because he will never get this moment in time back. I hope he has the decency to regret it. I just don't understand how a parent could pass up the opportunity to participate in such an important moment for their child. I'm sorry OP. Truly. But I am also glad to hear you have such supportive grandparents. Enjoy your day with them. NTA.
Any update OP? I hope you are on your way to moving out or have done so already. It was so easy for step mum to tell you to not attend graduation but I'm sure she won't ever tell her kids to do that and will never miss theirs.
NTA. Your situation sucks.  They should have figured out a way to juggle the events so at least your dad could go. 

I can’t help but wonder whether it is just a weird family dynamic, or if your step sister is beyond the usual golden child. It is unusual for a kid to win a competition out of state, and you mentioned dance being a big deal. Is she rising-celebrity level?  Like, is it possible the awfulness to you is because they think they are stage-parents to the next Brittney spears / Miley Cyrus / etc?  Is she that charismatic?

It doesn’t excuse how they treat you at all, but if they think she is the future family meal ticket, and she is super charismatic to boot, it would explain the behavior.
^^^^AUTOMOD  ***Thanks for posting! This comment is a copy of your post so readers can see the original text if your post is edited or removed. This comment is NOT accusing you of copying anything. Read [this](https://www.reddit.com/r/AmItheAsshole/wiki/faq#wiki_post_deletion) before [contacting the mod team](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FAmItheAsshole)***

I'm (18m) graduating high school at the end of this month. My dad dropped the bomb on me two nights ago that his stepdaughter (14f) has an award ceremony for some competition she entered and won in another state on that same day and that she really wants him to be there. He told me he couldn't possibly make it to both and since his wife and their children together will be going, he needs to be there too. He told me he would make it up to me and we could celebrate another time.

I still live with him (not for much longer). My mom died when I was 7 and my dad got married again when I was 11 or 12. It's been a few years anyway. His stepdaughter never knew her bio dad, so my dad has accepted her as his own. And he has prioritized her a lot in the last 5/6 years. It doesn't always show in the most obvious ways but it can be felt. Father/son time was put on an indefinite hiatus and instead dad told me we needed to include her in our time together but he also spent time with just her for father/daughter time. I brought it up to my dad and he told me I wasn't exactly making an effort to be closer to her so he wanted us all to bond and didn't want me to just focus on my relationship with him.

He has attended her dance things instead of my basketball games if they're on at the same time. It doesn't matter if mine was known about first, he will still skip my stuff to go to hers.

He will take us on family days and whenever he and his wife say "kids can choose" he picks her choices over mine. He claims it's because they will be the most fun for everyone but really, he even says it afterward, anything his little princess wants.

Our refrigerator and our shower broke at the same time. His stepdaughter's birthday was coming up so he took money from my birthday fund to pay for that stuff and so his stepdaughter would definitely get what she wanted (this barbie house thing and a whole fashion set and they were I think dad said $250). He didn't get all the money back by the time my birthday came around so instead he bought me a $30 gift card for Steam when he had promised me a new monitor and keyboard for my computer (that was a gift from my grandparents).

When my dad told me he wouldn't be at my graduation to go and support her, I told him there is no making up for that and he can forget about being included in my life going forward. He told me he would make it up to me and I told him I will always come second to his little princess and I'm not going to be okay with that. I told him he's discarded me for the last time. Dad begged me to be reasonable but I walked away. Then I invited both sets of grandparents who agreed to come. His wife told me I could have come with them and I don't need to attend the ceremony but could support "my sister". I said her daughter's not my sister and I do not want to support their family anymore and I will be out of their hair soon. She called me selfish and told me I can't deny her daughter a dad. 

AITA?

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/AmItheAsshole) if you have any questions or concerns.*
NTA. 

> [you] can’t deny her daughter a dad

So why can her daughter deny you a dad?
NTA. 

I’m sorry, who’s being denied a dad here? You deserve better op.
Wtf is wrong with your dad and step mom- I am so sorry you’re going through this! 

Graduating is a big milestone and I am proud of you- maybe you can move in with your grandparents if you aren’t going off to college

{I too was the black sheep when my mom and step dad got together. The day after I graduated I was told I had to move out and I never had a good relationship with my mom until they got divorced}

Good luck I hope you do big things in this world, your mom would be so proud of you.
Yep. I also mentioned how she has two parents now and I have zero because I already lost my mom and now I lost him as well.
> Ask your Dad's wife why it is OK to deny you any parent at all so her daughter can have two.

Because his wife demands it.  He can be a single dad or he can be married and prioritizing the wife's priorities above his own.  It's a tale as old as time.
Exactly this! OP, you should literally ask them that question. 

This is emotionally abusive behaviour on their part, you are massively NTA, and I wish you every bit of luck and happiness in your future. I'm not sure when I started to realize it, probably in my late 20's, but you can create an amazing family without any bio connections. I'm sure you'll find people who will care as much about you as you care about them.
That edit, exactly.
"she called me selfish and i can't deny her daughter a dad."

what an incredible piece of hypocrisy coming from the person who's denying you your dad on your graduation day.
Yeah, that has Evil Stepmom vibes, seriously. Not even a thought for OP‘s needs and feelings - just everything for her daughter. Ouch.
Sounds like she and he denied you a mom. 
Right,  but she can deny him a mom.  Ok
I would’ve responded with ‘well now I don’t have a mom or a dad so thanks. You won, you can keep him’
She denied her daughter a dad by either not knowing who the dad is or by choosing someone shitty enough to not acknowledge their child. Def not OPs fault.
And what has dad’s wife done to help OP have a mother figure? If two parents are *that* important. 

Poor kid lost his mom, and they are taking his dad from him so that Princess gets her daddy too.
And Mom!
Don't put it entirely on them.  it was dad who consciously and consistently favored stepdaughter over OP.
Really I only want to matter to him. But time and time again he has shown me that I don't.
Thank you for saying that. It does help to see it sometimes.
I can't because my grandparents live in another state. Which would make school... difficult. They notice it and they talked to my dad (well dad's parents did) but it did nothing and it resulted in them fighting.
>His wife told me I could have come with them and I don't need to attend the ceremony but could support "my sister". I said her daughter's not my sister and I do not want to support their family anymore and I will be out of their hair soon. ***She called me selfish and told me I can't deny her daughter a dad.***

Yet they have no issue denying OP a dad. This stepmother is a disgusting hypocrite. She doesn't care what anyone wants as long as her kids come first. 

OP, go graduate, not only from HS but from these disgusting people who call themselves parents. Unfortunately, you going LC/NC with your dad is excatly what his wife wants and has always wanted since the day he introduced you to her. 

Please have an amazing day, and if it means anything, this internet stranger mum is proud of you not only for finishing HS, but more importantly for knowing that you deserve, love, respect, attention and recognition. Hugs
Yeh my parents had a lot to juggle with both working and three kids who were in a bunch of extra curricular activities. But they clearly balanced it well because I can’t remember a single time they disappointed me in a “core memory” way - of course we had arguments etc. but clearly they were good at identifying when it mattered! And they didn’t come to everything - lots of going with friends parents or grandparents going etc. but never for the big things.
Plus, in what world would OP be denying her daughter a dad? Her bio dad did that. OP’s dad stepping in does not mean that his own kid should no longer have a dad, which is what they are all showing him they feel over and over again.

I wonder if OP’s paternal grandparents have said anything to dad about his behavior?

OP, I’m glad both sets are parents are going to be there to support you. Lean into them and leave your dad, step mom and others on the house on their own.

NTA, and congrats on your graduation and the multitude of amazing things you are going to accomplish, especially doing so without the support you deserve.
Should be that way, but for my dad it isn't. Once it's hers it will always be her celebration.
Not to mention that even disregarding all these details, why the fuck can't the parents split?? Wouldn't that make more sense? Step-sister already has her mother and siblings with her, she already has support, how does that mean the father should go as well???????!?? "Oh, sister already has people attending her ceremony, so OP should have *none*".  

W h a t ???
It doesn’t matter that it’s his stepdaughter (Reddit full of posts by mistreated stepchildren and parents being terrible by acting like step kids are just trouble). But one parent was already attending the daughter’s event. And the graduation was more important anyway. And OP lost his mom, his dad should have stepped up more not less! OP you deserve better, glad you have your grandparents. Hope your dad will do better one day. Congratulations on your graduation.
Seriously!  Even if they were both bio kids of both parents,  graduation wins.  Period.
Probably all of it if it conflicts with something. I can see it, I'm getting married and his stepdaughter is graduating and he's like "OMG I can't miss her graduation for a wedding!!" When my graduation mattered less than an award.
I could technically move now but my grandparents live in another state so it's not an option for me yet.
It'll be complete no contact. My dad was the only reason I would have stayed in contact but he's not worth it.
And a mom too. She's definitely the evil step-mother.
Not out yet. My grandparents live in another state so I can't leave just yet.
I was gonna say the same, 38 year old Scottish chick here but I can dad better than that guy.
The fact the step mother suggested to forgo his own graduation ceremony so he could go to her daughter's award ceremony. Absolutely disgusting and I honestly think she was low key rubbing it in that OP's dad chose them over him.
That balance never existed. Once she came into his life he prioritized her every step of the way.
The only one being denied a dad is OP.
Did you pick up the stepmother's comment though? That encapsulates the entire situation: "You can't deny my daughter a father" which is sickly ironic considering that's exactly what her precious little baby has done to OP. Might as well have said flat out "I don't care that my daughter getting a father came at your expense" so OP, NTA, and just bin them off because you're never going to be a part of their wonderful little dynamic.
There's no credit for being there for step daughter by ignoring your own kid.
I agree NTA

Both your dad and stepmom are massive AH here. You and your stepsister share half siblings together yet they are taking all of them to support her with no one supporting you. When you have two children with important events happening at the same time then the family needs to split so both children are being supported in their accomplishments.
>He needs to maintain balance though & I feel he should have made time for a once in a lifetime thing for you.

Absolutely right. When stepdaughter inevitably says, "You're not my real dad," when she gets mad with him, dad will think back to this moment with humongous regret. 

OP, NTA. Congratulations on graduating!!
Can't you move with one of your grand-parents before you move on with your life, college or else? This is a terrible dad, especially since you lost your mother. That's so cruel of them. Move total NC: at least this will reduce the heartache of the constant rejections.
[deleted]
I mean, my mother is an abusive witch and she still went to mine. 
My cousin attended my graduation on his birthday. Graduations are important. When you're a parent and more than one kid has something going on at the same time then you prioritize. Graduations are on the top of the list. It would take a medical emergency or an accident for most parents to skip their child's graduation.
His wife will be at his daughter's ceremony, he can be at OPs ceremony. Parents split coverage like that all the time.  Could have done for overlapping dance shows and baseball games also. OPs dad sucks at being a parent.  NTA obviously.
I actually don’t think it’s credible he wants to be there for his step daughter. It would be fine, but it comes at the expense of others. That’s not being a good dad, that’s being a really shitty dad. 

He ditched his old family for a new one.
His reasoning also doesn’t make sense. The rest of the family are going to stepdaughters ceremony so he has to? Surely, if everyone else is going he should be the one going the graduation so both kids have some parental support.
I can't until graduation because they live in another state.
“…the rest of the family” that doesn’t include OP. It’s incredible that he can’t even hear himself. OP is not walking away from his family because dad’s already told him he doesn’t have one. I hope he gets to his GPs soon.
"At least dad can never say he doesn't understand why you don't keep in touch once you're 18!"

Oh no, Dad will be one of those woe is me parents, he loves his son soooo much and can't understand why his son won't talk to him. He'll have all the missing missing reasons for why.
Not really, no.
And I hope your mom and step dad are being miserable
Yep. Pussywhipped. He’ll regret that later. Keep your chin up.
Yes a nice roomy refrigerator box under a bridge.
Nope golden child can do that & pay for it.   I wouldnot answer that call
My stepsister knows but we're not close and don't really have a relationship so it doesn't bother her.
> And he has the gall to ask you to be reasonable. Pffft

His wife will give him trouble if he doesn't do what she wants.  Sounds like a lovely marriage.  I feel terrible for OP.
Wonder why stepmom doesn't do the same for OP. She is to OP what her husband is to her daughter
Edit: spelling
I don't really know what it's for exactly. I just know it's out of state. But she's not celebrity level in dance. But she does dance a lot and has traveled for it before.
Did he reply to this or ignore you?
Send him this post.
I would tell him that your mom would be disappointed in the man he turned into.
Second vote for sending him this post.
Time to start calling your dad by his first name because he is no longer your father. Graduate, get out, and go no contact. Don't be surprised if, after a few cursory attempts to contact you, your dad stops trying. I honestly think he'll remain so focused on his new family that he won't think about your absence very much. However, you can also expect him to try to contact you years from now now when something in his life changes and it becomes convenient for him to remember he has a son.

I know it's sad, but the good news is that he won't be in your life to hurt you anymore. No agonizing about whether or not he's going to show up to your future wedding because princess has a competition that day. Or whether he's going to hijack your future kid's birthday party (assuming he even shows up) and make it about princess. No longer will you have to be an outsider. You are free to gather people around you who actually care about you.
It is but it is a rebuttal to the wife's comment that "I can't deny her daughter a dad."
> Because his wife demands it.  He can be a single dad or he can be married and prioritizing the wife's priorities above his own.  It's a tale as old as time.

No, he absolutely can prioritize his own child over the wife. It’s time for dad to be an adult instead of a scared immature brat. This type of behavior gives men a bad rep.
But he should be forced to say it
Omg this broke me 

“Can’t deny my daughter a dad” 
“But you denied me a mom” 

😭
Don’t even give them the satisfaction. Just jump ship, get the most successful, well paying job you can, and then years later if they need help or a favor tell them to pound sand, lolz.
Looks like she's got a type. "Men who ignore their own kid"
I literally was going to say this.
Sounds like the mum encouraged it though. And that she has zero cares for op since she suggested he skip his own hs graduation for her dumb event. So I'd she 100% enables the dads behaviour.
Eh, agree to disagree. The step mom is a full grown adult who can see signs of favoritism or neglect but doesn’t encourage her husband to support both kids equally because it benefits her and her daughter. Just bc step sister is a minor doesn’t mean she’s free of wrongdoing. She could just tell OP’s dad that he can go to OP’s graduation because she won’t mind at all.
Please don’t waste your energy. My mother never cared about me once her new husband came along, and my dad died when I was young.

He will never change, because he doesn’t see what he’s doing wrong, and I’m not sure he ever will. Congratulations on graduating, and I promise that you can do this 💜
OP’s dad posting in five years-“My wildly successful son is low contact with me for no reason at all”.   And then later- “Why is my 40 yo stepdaughter still living with me and doesn’t do anything for herself.
Oh that hit me in the feels. 

Sometimes when you stand up set clear consequences people do change. The pattern you described doesn't suggest this outcome is ever likely.

I'm sorry it isn't you, it was never you, and it will never be about you. You are an awesome person and you will find your people. I'm really sorry it sounds like you dad is not one. It's kinda basic level expectation of a parent.

Best guess he chose to keep his wife happy to avoid his own pain. And you are just collateral in that thinking. But you don't need to dwell here we all choose our own path. Go live the best vision of you.

You can't make someone else do anything, they can choose to  be with you, you can choose who you are around.

Good luck freedom is a massive rush, remember to be kind to yourself
Honestly dad doesn't even deserve to be called that, the fact his wife told u to skip graduation for her daughter is the cherry on top. NTA I hope u are able to find people who actually care for you and honestly just go no contact with him. Best of luck OP and congratulations on graduating just know alot of people are proud of you and you have worked hard.
I’m in my 30s now, but my mother was like this with my older sister and I. I was never given compliments, never encouraged, never helped through things, but my sister was CONSTANTLY told how little and cute, how pretty, how independent..etc. I ended up with an eating disorder and having no bond with either of them. My mother didn’t even come to my wedding because it was out of state. To this day my sister can do no wrong. It will get easier to deal with, and once you’re on your own, you will see how not seeking his approval will help you to gain self confidence and a sense of independence. Yes it will still hurt, but that will also diminish over time. Hang in there, keep the people that love you and SHOW you that they do close. Remember that your value as a person has nothing to do with his behavior. Congratulations on your graduation!!
Curious what your paternal grandparents think
Find consolation in the fact that it is not even your stepsister that matters, the only thing that really matters to your father is the p\*ssy. When people discard their own children for the step, it just means they are cowards and want to keep their partner happy. The love he feels for your stepsister is likely only a facade, if he were to change partners he would lose interest in her too. Be glad that he is not fooling you and that you can build your own family. Your dad is broken, because filial love doesn't work properly for him. There are people like that, it's not your fault. He's like a broken TV, you can broadcast whatever you want, 1000 channels, he's not going to show anything on the screen. It's not your fault. I hope you can heal however you see fit.
I have been where you are! My dad started dating a senior in college when I was a freshman in high school. He missed my dance recital to take her to her senior formal at college. They got married when I was 18. She wished I didn’t exist and did everything in her power to put a wedge between my dad and myself. Then they had two boys, who I adored, but who clearly got a better deal out of my dad. I put up with it for twenty years until I finally had enough. 

I wrote a letter detailing literally every single time he chose his wife and sons (his do over family) over me on important occasions (also my high school graduation) and all the things he had done to make me feel less than. I know they all seemed insignificant alone, but added together, it was too much for me to accept. I told him he could just forget that he had a daughter permanently since he was doing such a shitty job being my dad when he remembered he had a daughter. 

He called and texted a bunch, but all of his excuses and non-apologies made me feel even better about my decision. I realized he hurt me SO MUCH over the years by neglecting me, starting a new family, choosing his new family over me every single time, buying a new house, going on fancy vacations, driving flashy cars, and rubbing my nose in it because he never ever thought to include me in any of it - all while my mother and I struggled hard (spent many days/nights in the dark and eating by candle light until we could pay the electric bill because he negotiated lower child support - his new wife didn’t think he should pay it AT ALL because I was a teenager, but I was like 15 when she started her shit, so I was still a child). 

He built himself a much better life than he built for me and my mom and then left us in the dust. Every once in awhile, he would invite me to dinner at his house only to spend the whole time telling me all the things he’s done that I had told him I wanted to do but he did with his new family instead - without including me (second row center seats for Les Miserables, a trip to Aruba, Disney World) - did he think his daughter wouldn’t be upset that her father and his new family did all this family stuff together but they didn’t even think to include her?!?!

He never made time for me, never came to sports/dance stuff, he squeezed me in whenever SHE was busy. I decided I didn’t want to be filler anymore. I always left feeling terrible about myself. Like I wasn’t good enough to be his full time daughter. It affected my mental health. So I decided to cut out the toxic relationship completely. 

I responded to one of his texts in August 2021 and decided I didn’t even want to do that anymore. I was tired of feeling like a red headed stepchild to my own father. My mom and stepfather showed me what real parental love looks like. I haven’t responded to any texts since then and they eventually dropped off. I’m friends with some of my dad’s family on FB so we keep up with each other, but my dad and my stepmother share an account and the bitch unfriended me so that my dad and I couldn’t keep in touch (that was like ten years ago)

I also moved 900 mikes away (my mom and stepfather followed us down a few months later) and didn’t give him my new address. As far as I am concerned, he is not my father anymore. I don’t need or want him in my life. I don’t wish harm on him, I just don’t care what happens to him. 

Years and years of parental neglect will take its toll. You have every right to walk away without looking back. My mental health improved dramatically and I don’t feel bad even a teeny tiny bit for never, ever, ever seeing or speaking to him ever again. I never think about him (except when I read things like this), and I don’t miss him at all.
Adopt a better guardian maybe grandparents maybe someone else, but your dad is not worth the headache.
So sorry to hear this. Best wishes for much happiness and success for you down the road. While sad how he’s treated you, you have the maturity to move forward. NTA
My godfather used to play a huge role in my life. Then all of a sudden he stopped showing up. Or for every milestone and/or holiday he’d bitch and moan about coming and try to get out of it. He spent my confirmation (important religious ceremony) at his friend’s grandchild’s bar mitzvah. He spent my high school graduation at a church retreat that he had been to many years before and many years since. 

I just don’t trust him anymore. He has proven time and again that I’m not his priority. I don’t have a dad, and my mom is abusive so I’m low contact. So losing him really fucking stung. But I’m not going to put time and effort into him if he’s not going to put time and effort into me.
I feel you so much, but I wanna tell you don't waste your energy on that. My parents were always very negligent to me and always dramatically favored my sister over me, and for years I tried to fix that but nothing helped. I still have a good enough relationship with my parents, we have fun and stuff, but I've just drastically lowered my expectations of them. If they do something nice that's a cool bonus but I expect nothing and always expect them to choke when they offer to be there for me in any way. It's kinda like I don't have parents in my mind so I'm never really disappointed. I've created my own support system elsewhere and I've been way happier since.

But just know that your father favoring his stepdaughter doesn't mean anything about you, it's a reflection of his own issues. He doesn't do that because you're not good enough or interesting enough of loveable enough, please remember that. Maybe he does that to make his wife happy (she sounds selfish and entitled). Maybe he feels bad for the girl for not having a father because it touches one of his own wounds from childhood, or feels guilty when he's not taking care of her. Some people have issues in their relationship to the opposite sex that make them more inclined towards their child or the opposite sex. Or maybe he's not dealing well emotionally with the loss of your mother and is diving head first in his new relationship to recreate the sense of a whole family that he had when your mom was there. Anyway no matter what it is, it's his own issues and it's NOT YOU. And it's great that at your young age you're perceptible enough to see the issues. And congrats on finishing high school ❤️
This hurts my heart so much. Lots of hugs to you.
make sure that you have all of your important documents (s.s.card, birth certificate, passport) safely secured away for when you leave.
I am so sorry. I somewhat understand how it feels to want to be wanted by your father but just know you're enough and you can't do anything about it. He needs to prioritize both of you treat you as equals. You can give him chances yea but there's a limit to how many chances you give him. Taking money out of your birthday fund and not hers why? Plus if your dad is so nice and considerate of his stepdaughter why is his wife not considerate abt you? Why can't she tell her daughter to go to your graduation to support you (her brother)🤷‍♀️. So no you're 100% NTA. Your anger is valid
It's an act of self-preservation, never forget that. You're doing it in response to an ongoing pattern of behavior that harms you. You didn't do this, he did it to himself.
Look OP, you don't know me and I don't know you. But as a mother, I just want to say that I love you and I am so sorry you're going through this. You've got an amazing head on your shoulders and this mama is extremely proud of you. Keep going forward with your head high and leave the garbage where it belongs, in the trash. 💜
It may not be your exact situation, but the sub raisedbynarcissists has a lot of information and experiences in low an no contact. Give it a read through. 

I'm glad your grandparents are there for you. Best of luck!! ❤️ 

I went low and no with my parents, I am the family Scapegoat, it was definitely tough but I made my way without their help. It felt awful at first, but in hindsight it was the best decision. No strings attached gave me the ultimate freedom to deal with my parents bullshitery how I wanted. I had power. And I wasn't mean. I never mirrored their cruelty back. That was powerful too. 

I know you are upset and angry, you have every right to be, but you've proven yourself a survivor already. So, you have it in you to overcome this difficult step in life. Don't let your cowardly dad stop you from achieving what you want. ❤️
Try to take comfort in the fact that he showed his true colors early so you don’t have years of feeling gaslit or guilty with more subtle slights. You can move on now. I’m sorry I know it’s hard. I experienced some of what you describe but it was me vs my niece, his step granddaughter. Our birthdays are a few days apart and for a while she was the priority even though she has a large family. Thankfully it got better but we had some fights about it.
If it were me, I would have my bags packed the day of. Your grandparents are coming to your graduation. You can ride back home with them.
Now that school‘s over, I hope you can get out of there asap. You’re definitely NTA and I‘m sorry your dad and his wife are doing this to you.  I know it hurts but you‘ll still be able to make a better life for yourself. 

I went NC with my dad as a teenager for consistently choosing his new partner over me. Of course it hurt but it was the right choice. (Also, now he‘s old she has dumped him and he’s got nobody left who cares about him.)
You’re graduating. 

Go back with them after the ceremony. You deserve to be doted on a bit. Grandparents are good for that.
You're 18 & graduating, if you want to spend school breaks with them you can.
You're obviously NTA here, but I'm going to give you some advice if you actually want to have a relationship with your dad going forward: I don't think he believes or understands how hurt you are and just thinks you're being a silly teenager. You can't "make" him understand, so my recommendation would be to sit down and write him a letter. 

Think of (at least) 3-4 *specific* examples of how you feel like he let you down (i.e. "In March, I had a playoff game that I desperately wanted support at and you didn't come because [reason]" and not "you never come to my games") and how the graduation attendance is part of a larger pattern. A HS graduation is a once-in-a-lifetime event. Choosing to be anywhere else shows that that other event is more important.

Cap it off by telling him that if he wants to be involved in your life he needs to show interest. If he's not willing or able to put in the seemingly low bar to simply show up, he can get updates about your life from his parents.

There's no guarantee that works, but in my experience a letter is a better way to get all your thoughts out before getting interrupted or sidetracked.
They are fighting because he is refusing to deal with what would happen if the second wife gets mad…. 

This sounds like a friend who had a similar family situation and when the parent realized they were going to loose their bio child, disowned by their parents and siblings… they started to make up and the new spouse didn’t like the change and made the marriage and home life difficult…from what I remember….

I am wondering if the second wife/step mom would start raising heck if OP would get treated better and things would even out or better for a while???
Have you picked a college yet? Or made plans for a career after HS? Is it possible to move states to your grandparents.
Are you moving states now that you are graduating?
>Unfortunately, you going LC/NC with your dad is excatly what his wife wants and has always wanted since the day he introduced you to her.

Yup, that's what my ex-stepwitch did with my father and me. Thankfully he found out what kind of psychopath she really was, and today me and my dad are the best of friends. Alot of backstory here that I wont share now, but tbh I can't see how OPs dad ever can come back from that like my dad did. But one thing is certain. When OPs dad figures out he lost his son he'll also find out what kind of person his wife really is. I won't be surprised if he ends up all alone in the end.
I am so sorry this has been your experience. In balanced families parents usually split to make sure one is in attendance at each event. I am guessing dad continues to bow to step moms pressure. So glad you have your grandparents to share this wonderful achievement. Move ahead and don’t look back. Relationships take effort and time. Your dad will now reap what he has sowed. Congratulations!!  NTA.
Show him this thread. Ask for his comments after he reads it.
I'm so sorry OP, you deserve better. My advice would be to go NC asap if possible, if not LC. Spend as much time with your grandparents, friends, and people that love you and treat you well.

Maybe someday in the future your father will realize what he has done to this relationship and apologize, but that day is not today, and you should do what you can to get out of this toxic situation.

Hang in there, you are so close to the freedom of being able to choose who is in your life and who isn't.

And congrats on your graduation!!! I read in a comment you worked really hard, that is a huge accomplishment, and all of reddit is proud of you! And NTA, obviously.
I would start calling your dad by his first name saying he hasn't earned the right to be your dad anymore and that he has made his choice to forgo a graduation for his actual son yeah he doesn't deserve to be called Dad That's a privilege.
You can’t deny her daughter a dad but they have no problem denying you one. NTA, I’m so sorry that they treat you like this. You deserve more.
Well, you will have your grandparents and an entire host of supporotive, sympathetic (but sadly,, invisible) Redditors with you.

You deserve so much better and your father WILL regret this. In the meantime, create a Spotify playlist that consists only of versions of "Cats in the Cradle., including the  surprisingly boppy Johnny Cash version. Better yet, make the intro your ringtone. On HIS phone.

Heh.
You might consider showing him this post. Not to hurt him, but so he knows exactly how you feel and why. You wrote it all out very well and it makes total sense when stated so clearly. Perhaps as a last ditch effort to show him you’re not just being a brat, and there is a clear pattern of behavior that has really hurt you.
The little princess NEEDS a father but OP can fuck off when it comes to having a mother.
I'm willing to bet OP's dad does not get to go many places alone with his son. His wife is probably always in his ear demanding he  ' parent her/their kids OP is nearly an adult and will be leaving them soon. Younger children need their parents support more than older ones.' Jealousy, maybe?
Because the problem is actually the codependent, demanding stepmother.
This! It's such a routine procedure in two-parental-figure households. Both kids have things happening on the same day? One parent attends each event. Boom. Done. 

This is insane, OP. It's not just that he's favoring your stepsister, it's that he's going out of his way to de-prioritize you. Get out as soon as you can. NTA.
How soon can you move out? It's time to go NC with him and his family. Start moving all your sentimental things out first. Do you still have your mom's things? Her jewelry? Maybe you can get her SS or something to support you. NTA
These sound like people who'd plan a vacation on your wedding day and then claim they can't attend because they're going on a vacation with the stepdaughter and can't possibly miss that.
Yeah I just feel like if you give them an inch, they really will take a mile. "If you can't even choose my high school graduation, then I will consider our relationship severed" is a good boundary to set. They get no more chances.
I’m not usually one to say cut off family, but for your own self protection, you may have to. At the very least, you have to see who your father is and know he is not likely to change. I’ve been on that roller coaster ride of hope and expectation to disappointment and betrayal - it’s not one you can ride forever and stay emotionally healthy. 

I wonder what your dad would say if you said, “Mom would be so disappointed in you.”

Congrats on your graduation, OP. I hope you are making plans to secure a stable future for yourself. Some mom advice: you need to use this time with your grandparents to sit down and make a plan and figure out if they can help you financially, emotionally, etc.  I find the excuse that they live out of state a bit disheartening. There may be valid reasons they haven’t been able to do more, but I would be up my kid’s ass if he weren’t treating my grandkid well.
is this the nobel prize? what kind of award would make your dad miss your HS graduation? and how is his wife going along with it? i really want to know what stepsister did to warrant this mega achievement.
Will be after HS graduation though. Best of luck
Question: what do you plan on doing after graduation? Does your dad know you plan on moving out after graduation? Please update us. Wishing you the best.
After you graduate, could you look at studying where your grandparents live? I'm so sorry you are dealing with this OP, I can't imagine how painful it is. But you *do* have people who love you. Once you graduate, your life - including your relationships and who you give the privilege of being part of it - is in *your* control. So start planning what you want for yourself - and if you can move to be closer to your support system even better ❤️
Just keep in mind -- practicality over principles. If dealing with their abusive, neglectful bullshit can help you get support for university or tradeschool or whatever you need while you land on your two feet, then you do what you gotta do.


But as soon as you can get free you get free and start surrounding yourself with a support network of people who actually care for you. Grandparents sound like a good start
Start packing now, tell them you’ll be out of their hair by graduation. Have an awesome graduation and get your grandparents to rent a U-Haul so you can leave before they come back. 

In your situation the family prioritizes the milestone life event. Graduating HS is a such an event, not a certificate she has recently been working to earn. You started school around at 4-5 yrs old and in the span of 13 yrs you lost both parents. At every turn he has chosen his new daughter and her mother is no different, suggesting you skip your own HS graduation. It’s pretty selfish to ask your dad to skip your brother’s graduation so you can get a certificate. 

Ask them what life event of yours will they skip her HS graduation for? The answer is nothing.

Also knowing he whines when you try to have an actual conversation about the imbalance in your household and his own parents can’t convince him to do better. You will be right to walk away! Going no contact is the best idea to protect your heart.
You seem stuck on the idea that they live in another state. That’s what they make buses for. You should make a plan with them now. Figure out what school near them offers what you want in the way of college, trade school, etc.
This will be the easiest time period in you life to move. Unless you are in the military or are going to school locally, you can get a job in another state. You are young and can start your whole life there. Friendships at this age fade as university starts, not always, but most. You don’t have school holding you back once you graduate. 

Let him come home from her award show to your stuff being gone. Don’t say bye, just be gone. Pack your stuff and be out of the house when he gets back so they all walk into the consequences of their actions. 

Don’t let fear hold you back from your future!
Serious props to you for putting yourself first! People in their 40s are just learning about boundaries that you are learning to set now. Seriously good for you! Best of luck, OP.
It takes some people their whole lifetime to figure out a toxic parent or family member isn’t worth sacrificing your happiness and inner peace to get their love and affection. 

You’ve figured it out as a teenager and I just want to say I’m SO happy and proud of you that you did. 

You’re going to have a wonderful life and meet some lovely girl and be the kind of parent to your kids you should have had. So much ahead for a smart boy like yourself! 

If anything I would maybe take a gap year and live and work with your grandparents (mothers) and apply to schools there so you can have a support system around you and even live there while going to school! It’s totally possible you’ve just got to be brave enough to get out of there and start being happy kid!
Make sure and get a copy of your birth certificate and know your social security number.
Good on you!   There is no reason to continue to subject yourself to this.  I can tell you from experience, it is highly unlikely to get better.

The only reason FIL and MIL had my husband, "Greg", was because FIL's stepdaughter, "Evie", wanted a baby brother.  FIL thought it would make him and Evie closer if he gave her what she wanted.  It didn't--she never stopped hating him.  Greg was unwanted from day 1 (except by Evie--who ended up raising him more than anyone else).  FIL kicked Greg out as soon as he hit 16 yrs.   Now 40+ years later, Evie passed away tragically when Greg was just starting high school, MIL passed away about 30 years ago.   Guess who is all alone?   He retired quite some time ago and has become an "author".  He sent Greg a copy of one of his books--the dedication at the beginning was all about Evie with no mention that he even had a son.  In fact, typically, we only hear from him when he wants something.  Greg told him that if anything happened, he would be putting FIL in the worst home/care facility he could find in the state.  FIL believes him.
Good for you and CONGRATS on graduation!
Good. This cannot be "made up to you "
I know. Step-parents always fucking whine about how disrespectful their stepchildren are being. Yet they literally came into the children's life and they are supposed to show respect? Nah. Rude stepchildren are probably just hurting. It's a huge change and a lot of kids are scared that the new partner is gonna be their parent's priority instead of them.
Unless you are going to uni in state, I would make plans to leave with them after they attend your graduation.

Congrats on graduating. It is like jogging.  High school is so good when it stops.
NTA and whatever your plans are after graduation, I hope you can move to your grandparents full time. Make sure you get your important documents and make sure if you have a bank account to kick your father off so it's just you.

Then open a new account at a different bank. Sadly banks have been known to screw up access for kids and parents when they simply change types to adult accounts.
You can start making preparations to move out.

If your dad pays for your cell phone plan, get your own.  Often, neglectful parents who don't want to face their inadequacy will use our tech to control us, especially if they pay the cell bill.  Get a cheap, unlocked phone from a Best buy (Motorola has good options for around $200) and then get a low cost carrier.  You can do this without getting a cell bill through companies like Mint or Visible, both low cost carriers.  Once you transfer all your contacts and photos and other data, you can wipe the old phone (research online on how to do that).  On move out day, give your dad your phone, if he has not confiscated it by then.

If you have a bank account, your dad may have cosigned for it when you were a minor.  Get a new bank account so they cannot have access to the money in your account.  Don't close your old account until after you move.  Sign up for paperless statements so the new bank does not generate any mail.

Do you live in the county in which you were born?  If so, you can obtain your birth certificate quite easily from the county records office.  You can find its location online.  If you can, go in person to get the record.  You have the right to get the document because it is your birth record.  You will need this document periodically in adulthood to prove your identity so it is important to have.  

Your social security card is important too.  If you do not have it, you can get a duplicate through the Social Security Administration.  It has to be done by mail, so it might be easier to request later, but keep in mind that you will need it too.

Once these things are done, research laws in your state about residency.  Make sure, before you start packing, if they have the ability to kick you out of your home.  Once you start packing, they will likely start to confront you.  They may threaten to kick you out.  Don't leave your home willingly.  If you work, make sure to check in before you leave that you are going to work.  If it is law, it is possible they would have to go to court to evict you formally.  

Once you are sure of the laws, I would start packing your personal items.  There is really no need to hide that you are packing.  Buy some boxes or storage containers and start packing the things you want but don't need.  

Most importantly, in any and all interaction with your dad, step mother or step/half siblings, be cordial and calm.  No yelling, even when being yelled at.  No snark. No rudeness.  No threats.   Stick with facts.  

In addition, if you are going to college, it is important to talk to a financial aid counselor.  Tell them you are estranged from your father and your mother is deceased.  They will help you.  My father was deceased and I was estranged from my mother.  They helped me obtain orphan status to get financial aid.  Without orphan status, I would not have received any aid because my mother made too much money and refused to help me in any way.

I am sure there are other things to consider, but this is a good place to start.

I will leave you with this.  I am sorry your father and step mother failed you.  I am sorry your father did not prioritize you.  I am sorry your step mother was too wounded and insecure to see you also needed the love of a mother.  They failed you.  Horrifically.  Cherish your grandparents.  I am glad they unconditionally love you like you deserve.  Your future holds so much for you.  You deserve healing.  Your fresh start is coming.  Healing is coming.  I understand how hard it is, but know and believe that You can do this.  You are going to make it through this challenge because you have what it takes to persevere and succeed.

I wish you well.  Take care!
We raised a good son here darling!
Agreed. Absolutely nasty work.
I was yelling at my screen when I read that part.
Good lord if I was in the stepmom’s shoes, OP’s dad would be in the doghouse for who knows how long for missing his son’s graduation
I’m sure the dad is being pressured by the stepmom 24/7. His dad is a huge pushover.
Master’s level gaslighting for sure, trying to make OP feel guilty for wanting to attend his own graduation.
Also your step sister has one parent who can attend, her mum. You only have one living parent so he should come to yours. On the days where there are important things that clash, It’s fair that each child gets one parent in attendance
I'm so sorry. I do hope you have other supportive people in your life.

All the very best to you.
Later on he will say half the stuff you remember didn't happen and another third wasn't as bad as you remember it. Then the last few, (assuming he has a future moment of almost self reflection) he will play the victim card and say how hard it was for him bc (whatever).

You might want to write down all the things you remember now so in 5 or 15 he can't just pretend it's all in your head.  

I'm sorry your dad is clueless.
I don't blame you one bit. Find your own family that loves and supports you. They don't have to be related by blood to be family. I can't stress this enough. 

I just want to say that his excuse is ridiculous and makes no sense at all. [I am on mobile in a low signal area and can't direct quote] ~the rest of her family will be there, so I need to be too~ Hah, quite the opposite. The rest of her family is there, so it makes the most sense he goes to your event so that you have support from the immediate family, too. She gets 2 parents and you get no parents? Wtf kind of bizarre reasoning is that? [Edit: I put this here to validate and reassure you that this is ridiculous behavior and that there is no logic. Your feelings are valid, and you do what you need to do]

My sister has four kids. Regularly, that means both parents can't attend an event bc another sibling has something at the same time. They switch off who is with which kiddo. Now that the youngest 2 are getting older, it means some aunties are sometimes rotating into the mix.
Have you told your grandparents just how bad it is? They might be able to talk some sense into him and salvage something from your relationship with your father. FFS, a normal parent would consider you losing one parent was bad enough without him bailing on you too. Your stepsister at least has a mother.
Op I’m sorry he’s being a crap dad. You deserve better.

Also this won’t cheer you up but if you’re looking for music that says how you feel this may be the one.  When I’m sad or angry at times I like songs that fit.

Cat's in the Cradle
Song by Harry Chapin
When I can give you something on your way:

Being a parent is a privilege, not a right. With his actions, your father has shown that he isn't your actual father, not where it matters.

I know it is difficult in your age, but when you move out, you start to create your own family, not by blood, but by mind, a family where you decide who is part of it because they want to be and you want them.to be with you. This is not only about your life partner, but about friends that can be part of your own little family group.

If I were in your position, I would probably be petty enough that I would switch calling my father inly by his first name, and saying that he made his final decision to not wanting to be your father anymore.

Also, if he has a change of mind, accept it only if you actually want it to having closure. If you can, get yourself some therapy. Forgiving someone that has sinned you is one method of closure, but not the only one. Moving on is a different form, and with a therapist, you can decide which methods of coping with this situation is best for you.
This is insane and shouldn’t even be a question for him. His priority should be his bio son who lost his mom and is achieving something huge that only happens one time. The stepkid will have more award ceremonies. I’m sorry. This kind of stuff pisses me off. Are you leaving for college/what are your next plans?
I am so incredibly sorry. This has been my situation as well. When my stepmother came along and my half sisters followed, shortly thereafter, I became an afterthought at best. I had nothing to do with my parents' divorce, I was three. I had no say in the custody arrangements, no voice in the visitation schedule, and I endured years of sexual assault at the hands of my mother's live-in boyfriend, a police officer, and yet I kept pushing forward. I made my way through college, married an amazing man (25 years next week) and his family who love me like their own, raised 3 incredible human beings, buried two infants, rescued 11 dogs and 18 cats, and I still am not worthy of a visit. I would give anything to be loved the way my sisters are, to be "worthy" of their time, to have them want to know my children the way they want to know their other grandchildren. I have gone out of my way to try to be a part of their lives and I'm not even as wanted as my cousins. This will never be my reality and when the people who chose to bring you into the world show you that you aren't good enough for them you wonder how you could ever be good enough for anyone else. At the age of 47 I still struggle every day with the idea that just because I'm not good enough for a few people doesn't mean that I'm not good enough period. I applaud you for telling your father that his behavior is unacceptable and that if he misses your graduation his opportunity to have a relationship with you going forward has passed. For what it's worth, I encourage you to cut these people out of your life. Go live your life and be happy and free. Don't lose a millisecond of your time or energy on these people and the bullshit games they're playing. They think they matter because they matter to themselves and if that's what makes them feel good, let them have it. The rest of us live in the real world where people like that are inconsequential. You're an incredible person and you have succeeded already despite enduring some really painful and challenging things. You will continue to succeed. Cut them loose and fly! There's a whole big world waiting for you to explore! Congratulations on your graduation!!! 

Side note...your stepmother can eat shit and live
It sounds like he was overcompensating for her, but in fact was doing it at your expense. I am sooo sorry for you on that. You say you’ll be gone soon. Will you be living with grandparents? Or just going to school?
When you leave hand him a letter explaining why so he can't rationalize your leaving as it  being anything but a consequence of the way he treated you.  And based on what I've seen happen, the parent generally comes crawling back when they need the child they dismissed when that child needed them.
Let his daughter look after him in old age. He is awful and glad ypu are able to get away. NTA
NTA... wish you could leave their home now to stay with your grandparents....
Your dad has lost his son and ruin the relationship ya once had...his wife need to stay out of it... seems like she was looking for a dad for her daughter
Like you said. Go forward and prioritize yourself. He’s squandered his chance to have a meaningful relationship with his son in favor of his “new family”. Make time for the people that make time for you.
As a father… this fucking kills me. It’s so god damn important to have a proper male figure. So many kids would love to have a dad, and they don’t. Here OP has one and he refuses to do his basic functions as a father. To love, support, and care for his child. How he can be so cold just blows my mind!! 


And the stepmom. Jesus Christ… what a piece of work. My wife and I had a really bad season not too long ago 2-3 years ago… divorce attorneys were called. I started seeing someone else, and the new person I dated said to me “I understand your kids will always come first. I’m not going to try and replace their mom, but they’re part of you… and I love you so damn much which means I love them too and I’m always going to encourage you to continue being the amazing father you are” 

- and that’s how you approach dating someone who has kids. You encourage them to still be a parent. To still be there for their child, to be the loving person you fell for in the first place.
Don't forget, OP lost his Mother at age 7. 

The argument can be made that OP doesn't have a mother.

Where's his sympathy?
We had three events once, and my adult son offered right away to be the “third parent” to make sure his sisters all had a cheering section (he was even gracious enough to take the “boring” dare graduation, lol).  OP’s dad seriously fucking sucks.
I really hope OP will secretly move out while they’re gone and just disappear from their life. His father deserves no less. He pulled a disappearing act on him years ago when he started withdrawing from their relationship to favor the stepsister. 

I think the best thing would be for OP leave the list of ways he’s been betrayed by his father for YEARS on his bed when he leaves. And with that his father can fully forget the family he had before this shrew moved in to his life. And I just want OP to become wildly successful in his life and hope he is able to create a family around him and is happier than he has been in a long time. 

And, later when it turns out that his Dad realizes what he did to his son, and needs some help, OP can refer him to his stepsister the golden child. Or, when OP inherits everything solely from his father’s parents that he begins to realize what an ass he’s been.  Either way, some just desserts are better n order for the Dad and stepwife for their bad behavior!
Can you pack your belongings while "dad" and step-mom are away? Ask to go back with them after the graduation ceremony.
I’d leave the day after you graduate, he doesn’t deserve to be a father
Is your GP okay with you moving in? But you can tell them it's temporary until you can find a college and job. And tell them not to tell your Dad, after the fact you're moved out. You can't convince people to love you OP, sorry to say this. Hopefully, you follow through if your father doesn't attend your graduation.  Best of luck.
When your GP come to your graduation, hire a moving company and go with them
If it’s any consolation my bet is sooner rather than later half siblings will begin to resent step sister also.  This information will make you occasionally smile in future because half siblings will resent your dad too.

Last weekend my daughter graduated from college and less than 48 hours prior i totally tore my meniscus.  Yet I rode  in car 2 hours, hobbled on crutches to stadium, climbed 2 flights of stairs in stadium to get a seat. Then sat outside in direct sun 88*, high humidity in a huge knee brace to watch the ceremony. Next day repeat ( thank goodness in a building with AC) to be there for my child. That’s what a parent does, I’m sorry I can’t hobble to your ceremony too. I’m glad your grandparents will be there for you. Maybe a bit of therapy would help you process the betrayal you justifiably feel.. Congratulations you did great!
That sucks, but it will make it easier to cut ties if you decide that's necessary.
Unfortunately I don't think he is going to realise until it's too late what he has done to you 😕
Which says everything about her character
It's because I wasn't desperately looking for a mom. But her daughter desperately wanted a dad.
Stage moms (and dads) can be nuts. 

Others have suggested considering living with a grandparent. I hope you have that option available to you, even if just for summers. You deserve much more care than you are getting, and you aren’t wrong for expressing that to your dad.
He whined about it.
Thought the same thing instantly. Her heart would break into a thousand pieces if she knew how her child is being treated. She trusted (I assume) the dad with the son, hoping and wishing for the best. And now all of this. Heartbreaking, truly.
That's one hell of a gut punch, and I like it.
Mine would be ‘perhaps not, but I can certainly deny my dad a son’.
If he wasn’t incredibly selfish and more interested in being married than being a good father he would do that, I think that’s what the other commenter is saying.
Lmao I’d love to hear that OP became like a doctor or engineer or CEO of some company they founded and dad and step-mom try to sleaze back into their life. OP can give them a “Sorry dad I have something to do in another state but see ya never”.
My son won’t let me live with him and I’m stuck in the state retirement home……
I was going to say 10 years.  The lack of self awareness is actually quite awe inspiring.

Go out and be successful; after going NC with your father and self absorbed step family.
Future missing missing reasons…
I hope OP's dad gets that type of slap in the face in a few years!! 

My heart is breaking for you, OP. I don't think your dad understands the true meaning of being a father because he's not correctly parenting you nor your step sister. I do really hope you find your chosen family elsewhere 🩷

If you don't mind me asking- do you have any plans for college? If so, would he help pay for it do you think? If so, and if you can handle your sperm donor for a couple more years (maybe low contact?), it might be worth considering going no contact *once* you graduate college as well. Let him pay and then disappear, just like he did.

Omg and congrats on graduating!! A bunch of internet strangers are super proud of you 🥰
Do something fun to celebrate even if it's just you; you deserve it!!!
This is exactly what will happen. I'm 33 and I had a very similar situation to OP's only my stepdad did NOT favor me. I was always the outsider because I had a different dad. I had a miserable childhood and went as far away as I could for college and I graduate law school in 8 days! My brother, the golden child, is 24 and he just got his drivers license this week. He has never had a job (even part time or an internship), and he still lives at home. My parents are finally starting to praise me for my successes (I am graduating with a fantastic job offer) and expressing how they feel I shut them out. They feel like I've replaced them with my grandparents, who, like OP's, have always advocated for me and treated me with equal love and graciousness to their other grandchildren. And, yeah... I'm tired of trying to come to them for love and support and be turned down. It's painful and my life is happier without the disappointment. 

Your comment describes my life to a T and most likely, OP's. You nailed it.
Or my Step Daughter found her biological father and ask him to walk her down the isle.
“I used my sons trust from his late mom to pay for my daughters wedding without telling him and now he wants it for the down payment for a house, AITA for telling him it’s gone and I’m not giving him any money”
This post is so eloquent and empathetic, I hope OP sees it. You’ve literated exactly the emotional turmoil OP is going through so perfectly.
This, they are now Mr. & Mrs. Lastname everywhere, especially in public. They don’t wanna act like OP’s parents, OP should lean into that real hard. Tell everyone where they are instead of at graduation.
Absolutely this! Once I realised I didn’t need to seek their approval a weight lifted
They're so pissed at dad and they fought with him over it.
NTA, idk I always feel like in these cases you have to hit them where it hurts the absolute most, putting your emotions all out on the table. When you move out look him in his eyes and say your mom would be severely disappointed in the father he has become and he never truly loved your mother for him to treat her child she left behind for him in confidence to treat with absolute love and affection. And he disgusts you as a father, a husband and a man, then cut him off. I really wish you all the best, and always remember family is someone you can choose, you can make your own family of love and support, regardless if they’re related to you by blood. Congratulations on graduating.
Works perfectly if both parents will already be out of state too
Seriously OP this is what I'd be doing. You need to be looking out for number one!
yes OP!!! once graduation is over there really is no reason for you to stay at your dads place. leave with your grandparents and let your father come home to an empty house and hold your promise of no contact with him and HIS family.
Yep I would too
Man I hope OP does this
Internet fist bump.  Almost the exact same scenario for me.  Haven't talked to him in years.  Grandma told me recently his wife left him for someone else recently and since she's out of the picture I should try to have a relationship with my dad now.  But that ship has sailed and I have no want to even attempt a relationship with someone who will never truly have my best interest in mind. 

Like with all types of loss it gets easier with time.  Every once in a blue moon I'll see some very touching father/son moment in a movie or show and get that wanting feeling, but I've come to terms with the fact that he'll just never be the father I needed him to be.
Piggybacking off this to mention how it's very hurtful for both parents too expect you to sacrifice support for all your life's achievements for step sister's, and that it's even more hurtful that dad can put in bounds of extra effort for step daughter while step mom is dismissive when it comes to you and your life - going as far as suggesting that you're trying to deny her daughter a dad while it's ok to deny you both a dad and mom. The severe imbalance has taken its last toll.
I can't believe I had to come this far down for someone to mention the stepmom.

This is a classic example of a step parent coming in and basically wanting a new family and sidelining the old family.

OP doesn't fit into the new family so he gets discarded. I'm so sorry OP going through this.
I can't actually remember if my parents had ever prioritized my brother over me or vice versa in such cases. Despite having busy asf schedule, either both or atleast one of them always managed to be present in every school related thing for both of us even if our dates clashed. OP's father definetly suck major time
He'll probably just punish the OP for talking about it on the internet.
For these kinds of people that would be a waste of time. He's already so conflict avoidant with his new spouse that he's willing to abandon his first child. He would just intentionally misunderstand everyone else's points in this thread and still have no idea why he is wrong.


OP can try, but shouldn't get his hopes up.
I’m thinking Mr. Lastname. Especially in public.
… AND a father!
i can FUCKING GUARANTEE this is what’s happening. OP’s post hit close to home. my dad did the same shit.
My mom's stuff is at her parents house and her sister has some of it too. My grandparents kept my stuff of my mom's for me safe.
He doesn't know my plans.
This. School and housing are expensive. If OP stops expecting emotional support from his dad, he might actually be a little more capable of sucking it up and milking his current position for a while to avoid taking on extra debt or ending up in a precarious situation. 

Think of the dad like a weird landlord who doesn't charge rent. Try not to take it personally when they clearly choose step sis over OP. Have a free place to stay while he saves up some money or completes some gen ed credits or whatever. Free rent might be the best benefit this relationship has to offer him, if he can bear it. 

(Also just to be clear this isn't at all what OP deserves; he deserves a loving and supportive family. But if he's playing the cards he's dealt, this may be the way forward.)
The dad took money from his birthday fund, I think the first place he'll take if anything goes unexpectedly will be from his college fund
OP shouldn't move during their final year in school, but absolutely look at higher education/training/job options near grandparents for after graduation, IF OP can live with grandparents (they don't even have to commit to OP living there for years, just the first 6-12 months to get started).
NOT A COPY THE ORIGINAL. And make sure they do not have a copy. It is an official government document that belongs to OP.
I’m so proud of him, dear.
And it would be nice if the stepmother made as much effort to support her step son as he husband is to support his step daughter. She could have come to his basketball games for example. But no.
It's also super selfish of the step sister, she's 14 she's old enough to know that graduating from HS is important and shouldn't have asked for the Dad to prioritize her. I would make sure she knows she's as selfish as her mother!
Both parents here, and no step parents involved.  Conflicts happen all the time with multiple kids, and we split up so that one of us was at each event, and did our best to arrange it so that the same parent wasnt with the same kid all of the time.  Of course, both of us are grown up and perfectly capable of existing without the other parent.   My only question is how did my partner manage to avoid all the soccer games in the rain!?!
Luckily I have my grandparents even if they live in another state.
He'll reap what he sowed. Deservedly so.

I so hope you have every success & happiness in your life.
grandparents sound supportive. hope you have a great life.  got the feeling dad pleasing stepdaughter to shut up wify but no excuse for his behaviour. and hope he will feel the loss and suffer for the choices he made in the future
omg! you just described my parents! OP this comment is spot on! 

NTA i’m sitting here wracking my brain wondering how your stepmom had the audacity to suggest you skip your graduation. my brain hasn’t figured it out yet. some ppl just have more audacity than they should i guess. i wish i was this delulu. 

congratulations OP! despite what your stephag and sperm donor think high school graduation is a HUGE milestone! KUDOS TO YOU! YOU DID IT! GO CHANGE THE WORLD!
Hell why wait for a few years write the list and leave it on there refrigerator with a magnet listing every single specific grievance that you can remember. As you move out when you're graduated. Make a copy and remind them in a few years if you need to bring it back up
Nah OP should just go NC. His sperm donor can rot, without his son.
Hah. I’m the eldest of four - my parents never came to my things.
They're aware and they already tried and it became a fight. There's no salvaging anything after this.
Congratulations on your graduation. It’s an amazing achievement and you should be very proud. Your grandparents are clearly proud and I have no doubt your mother would be overjoyed as well. 
Your father isn’t in your corner and he isn’t worth your stress or energy. It’s time to let him go so you aren’t hurt by his actions any longer. Look for your supporters and build a circle that includes the people who care about you, and that doesn’t have to be family. 
You’re NTA. Go enjoy your day and do great things.
Seriously he should just play that song loudly whenever his Dad talks to him
That particular song might make things worse for op.
So true. My bf has a grown daughter and wee grandson. I don't try playing mom or grandma but I am a friend to both if they ever need support, love, or a kind ear. I'm well aware that his world stops when she needs her dad. I'm not having a fit about it either, I'm getting on shoes and grabbing the keys to get to her ASAP. I told him the same as your partner: You're a dad, if your kid needs you they come first. Always. I wouldn't be with you if you were the kind of person that put an SO before their kid.
That will likely be the case. The amount of posts that often pop up in here where that’s the situation are weirdly consoling in just that one respect; affirming that karma does indeed bite people in the ass more than we often think.
Better yet, leave literally right after graduation.
Oh yeah, they were "fighting" over me which was just both sets bickering because each wanted me for as long as I was willing to live with them.
From one parent to another: This is the way.
My son went to prom as a sophomore and my daughter had a dance competition a couple of hours away. I took her to the competition and my husband and mother went to the “Grand March”.  Nine years later it still makes me feel horribly guilty. I was front and center taking pictures his junior and senior prom.
He has 4 other children. Probably won't ever truly care
Yeah no way I’d be ok with that at 14.
Still she should have your best interest at heart too, just like you're dad had for her daughter. Together they are the parents in this blended family.
You are NTA of course, but both of them are.
No, this isn't on you. A healthy adult would have made sure her kid understands boundaries and that you were celebrated in the family too. 


I am not a step parent, so I can only imagine that it's hard to find that balance perfectly in a family where you have to honor history you're not part of, but good people try. NTA
Doesn't matter if you wanted her to be a mother figure, she was an adult in your life. She should have been supportive and not pulled your father away (he also should not have allowed himself to be pulled). They both failed you.
I hope you have a great time at your graduation, enjoy moving out!
So he knows. 
I'm very sorry you have lost your parents op. Feel hugged if you like that otherwise just know one day you'll meet YOUR family.
If you want to be a bit justifiably petty, change your name to your mother’s maiden name after moving out. She at least has a good excuse for not being able to be there for you.
I have a friend (we’ll call Eddie) whose situation is just like yours. His mom died when he was 9, dad (Jed) neglected Eddie for the sake of keeping his new wife and step kids happy but his step mother was also emotionally & verbally abusive & Jed turned a blind eye. My guess is Jed thought bc he shared blood w/his son, their relationship would always be there when he was ready to benefit from it. The last straw was Jed missing our college graduation bc step sis wanted to go out to dinner (bc she got into her dream college I’m pretty sure?) & Eddie was made the AH for asking if they could go out the following night of his graduation since they’d known about his graduation for months. Step mom called him narcissistic, self centered &, get this, accused him of not wanting step sis to have a father! We graduated, Eddie moved and lived his life.

6 years later when Eddie was about to have his first kid, his dad reached out angry that he had to find out from someone else who’d seen Eddies FB that his own son was married AND expecting (yeah Eddie didn’t even inform or invite his family to his wedding!!) & that he didn’t want to be deprived of his only grandkid. Eddie reminded him of just how bad Jed let his new family treat him and that the step siblings ALL have kids, but Eddie didn’t feel the need to foster a relationship between them. When you think about it you kinda feel pity for Jed bc only then did he get the gravity of what he did to his relationship w/his son and that there are consequences but Eddie had YEARS to mourn it. He didn’t even seem bitter about it after a while. Eddie & his made family are doing great but he still doesn’t have a relationship w/his dad or step family though :(
Whined! How DARE you make him feel uncomfortable about his terrible parenting!
I'm sorry I'm nosy and very irritated with your situation what did he have to say for himself exactly?
Let him whine all he wants he is still a horrible father to you. 


There will be alot more whining and begging in his life if he doesn't get it together and actually puts you and your needs 1st for once. 


I'm sorry you have a terrible father that never put any effort to maintaining a relationship with you.


Don't ever feel bad for cutting toxic people out of your life. You need to put your self 1st because he never will. 


 I hope that one day you are able to meet many people that will love and support you no matter what. 
Idk if these will help you but there are some great subreddits that can offer parental advice and guidance, support, and even just encouragement. A couple of good ones are r/MomforaMinute and r/DadforaMinute
Please update us
He’s choosing his wife over you. I’m so sorry. 

I hope you have college plans and I hope you can go live with your grandparents over breaks and the summer.
Yea, cut him off. Time to go no contact after graduation. There's no use in allowing such toxic behavior to fester in your life any longer. It'll be a bitch to work through but that's what therapy is for. 

You can always love from a distance. Good luck and congratulations on graduating. ❤️❤️❤️❤️
He whined about it? He really is an awful person
So he whined to you but doesn't have to balls to come to the post and try to justify his bs so we can rip him a new one. . . What a wanker. Please, OPs dad. Come to the comments so we can have at you. Please come take the licks you seriously deserve for being shit to your bio son. I've got some choice words you need to read. Along with all the other comments here.
He's whipped.

His wife told him that Daughter comes first and he can't stand up to her to support you.
Wrong, it'll be "My son won't let me, my wife and my unemployed stepdaughter live with him. My jobless daughter doesn't have time to take care of us, and my wife and I are about to go to a state retirement home because we burned through our savings retiring early after finding out my son is now rich."
Shady Pines awaits.
Yes, OP should post on ALL his social media, where the whole family can see, his graduation photos with his grandparents and the caption should just be him thanking them for showing up but it should also include even if in a PS type of form where daddy dear and his wife are and why they didn't show up to his graduation.
Good he deserves it - and glad you have decent grandparents. They must be ashamed of their son. 

Keep your chin up and be proud of yourself you deserve it
Glad they’re trying to point it out to him. BUT if he does decide to skip her ceremony for yours, don’t be fooled and accept his attendance as him “seeing the light” unless he truly apologizes and gives you the attention you deserve. I have a feeling that is he does come to your graduation it’s only because of the slack you and your grandparents gave him, not because he feels strongly about being there. I’m sad about that but I hope that you will be able to differentiate IF this even happens.
Good luck and congratulations!
What all was said?
Yeah, I‘m not interested in picking up the pieces for him either. I do sometimes notice it still hurts not to have a dad when I witness someone else being a great dad but getting back in touch with him wouldn’t help with that. 🤷‍♀️
“You made me look bad!”
“Why are you being so immature!? Why didn’t you talk to us!? Why did you bring it up with strangers!? Do you know how upset your mom and sister are!?”
Then just go. Ask your GP to hire a moving company and take all your things. And if the house you live in was buy when your mother was alive lawyer up for your part.
Why can’t you move to your grandparents state, establish residency.   Have you already selected a local college? Do you need financial support from your dad? Will his parents or your moms parents help financially.  So many questions bit you need support from people who LOVE you.  Love isn’t just a feeling it’s action.
If your birth certificate and social security card are at your dad’s house, make sure you grab those. Leave nothing behind
Make sure to have all your important and legal documents at theirs already or safe in a folder to take with you. 

Have your address updated at school so your diploma will be sent to your grandparents' house. There should be a way to arrange this with your school admin, lots of people move right after graduation. 

I'm sorry your dad has chosen to go down this route with his stepchild and new wife. You're doing the right thing for you and need to focus on yourself, especially over the next few years, as you will be going through some huge decisions. Even with help from your grandparents and aunt, it'll still be tough. As it is for most people. 

Congratulations on graduating, moving, and making the best decisions for yourself. 

Take some time for yourself after the move and relax. Breath the fresh air and let the weight of the nightmare leave your soul.

Good luck with everything. It will get better.
Start packing things quietly so he doesn’t notice. Get all your important papers (birth certificate, social security number) and hide them, perhaps in your school locker. 
Please send him a link to this post for him to read when he gets back and finds you gone. I am so frustrated on  your behalf that he hasn't seen what he has done.
Honestly, I think that's for the best. Start packing things up subtly, and if you can, prepare to leave the day of graduation while they're out at whatever nonsense ceremony your step sis has.
I’d really like an update when you do leave and go NC, if he ever reaches out. And I saw a comment I thought was good, changing your last name to your mother’s maiden name would be a nice blow and a liberating act to free yourself even on paper from him. And if you do, throw yourself a little party after with friends. An “abandon the deadbeat” party, if you will
He doesn't need to know. It's clear he doesn't put your needs or interests anywhere near the top of his priorities so I wouldn't tell him about your plans, that way he can't mess with these plans.
Wanna bet the stepmom is going to start pressing the sperm donor into making OP pay rent once he's done with school?
100% agree OP should do what’s best for him and not look back. That’s how you deal with toxic people
The stepmother is sooo far wrong on this one it's insane. She accuses him of trying to "rob" her daughter of a dad because he wants him to show up to ONE once in a lifetime event? She thinks ANY consideration of the bio son is too much.
She’s all concerned her daughter needs a dad, but no one has made any effort for him to have a mom after his *died*.

I’m fairly certain OP’s stepmom *wants* him out of the family because he’s an uncomfortable constant reminder of the first wife.
In her defence it sounds like she’s been brought up to be selfish from day 1 so it’s all she knows. 

She MIGHT still have time to stop her whole character turning into a Disney villain.
I'm glad that you have supportive grandparents & I'm so sorry for how you have been treated. You're NTA, but your dad & stepmother sure are. It's ironic that she's calling you selfish & saying that you can miss your high school graduation as well as claiming that you're trying to deny *her* daughter a dad when *her* kid could either just have her mom be there or miss her thing for once instead of being "selfish". Also, he's *your* dad & he isn't acting like it at all. You're being denied your dad by what has been going on. *He* should be ashamed. Don't allow anyone to guilt you over having consequences for his choices & actions. Enjoy your graduation & live a happy life. Congratulations on graduating!
Do your  grandparents know what’s going on OP?
My grandparents saved my life too. Mine lived in the same city though so I really feel for you since you have to get support from a distance.💖 It's almost over, you can walk away from your dad and live a life where you feel valued and appreciated.

You're doing great OP! You've got this and you mom would be so proud of you 💜 congratulations!🎉🥳
I wish you had responded to your step mom “but denying me a father and mother is fine? Noted dw when you need me most I won’t be there get your daughter to do it”.
Good grandparents. Invest in those relationships, you will get better return.
I’m glad that you’ve come to a resolution for this they can end the trauma that you’re facing. Your father doesn’t deserve you and he’s proved it to you enough over time. Now, especially since you’re young, you can build healthy relationships with people who actually care about you and will make you a priority from time to time.

This must hurt, but I think it’ll be better off in the long run
NTA

Go LC/NC and move to that state. Your grandparents sound like real parents that deserve to be included in your life.
Check it out brother, take it from a DAD. Hes fucking up, he is digging a hole he will regret digging later in life. I promise you he will beg your forgiveness one day and maybe you should, maybe you shouldn’t forgive him. That’s on you. One thing about it, don’t make it easy for him. Make him feel the hollowness he made you feel. You don’t have to put up with toxic behavior from someone just because your blood relatives. You can choose your family. Loved ones do not need to be blood. Or relatives in anyway
He will wondered why his son never call him after all the right thing he does (which is zero).
You’d be surprised how little some stepparents care about the non bio kids. In their mind their family is all that matters now and any prior kids are just inconvenient or an obstacle as if love and attention and time is a zero sum game
So your father thinks it's okay for her to get both parents attending and you to have none? That's so harsh, I'm sorry, OP.
OP I am so sorry that your father and HIS WIFE (I will not use the term stepmother to describe her) have treated you this way. It is wonderful that both sets of grandparents will be there supporting you.

Just wondering what your plans are for the future. Have you ever talked to your grandparents about possibly living with them to attend college or vocational type school where they live?

I hope life works out well for you. I know it is no replacement but on your graduation day please know that you have hundreds of Redditors cheering you on!
I'm very sorry you're going through this, it's heartbreaking. 
I had similar issues but with a StepDad. If not for my grandparents my life would not have been the same. They were my rocks of Love and till their last days my TRUE parents. Miss them tremendously.. You will overcome and move on, Be Strong and Never look back.
Especially since your step mom has obviously not been making the same overtures back to you and treating you like a son. 

NTA and it's okay to be angry. Just remember to be angry at the right people. None of this is your step sister's fault, even if sometimes it seems like it is. 

Your step mother should have been making these same efforts to you. Normally parents would divide and conquer - one parent goes to the basketball game, another goes to the recital. But it sounds like she is prioritizing her own daughter, leaving you fully in the cold.
Sadly your dad is thinking with the wrong head...
Yeah true, leave before they get back from their precious princess’ trip
They GPs are going to the graduation. OP can leave with them, and he can leisurely take his things at home since everyone will be away for the award ceremony.
GOOD. Look at all that love! As it should be, you deserve it OP! :)
In your situation,  I'd probably choose mum's parents. Not to punish dad's parents or anything, I'd visit them often, too. But just to make sure I wouldn't meet dad unexpectedly if he ever came to visit his parents - let the grandparents know this too. Or worse, if his monster wife got tired of him and kicked him out, so he'd have to move back with grandparents.

Also, NTA. I'm very sorry that you have to go through this.
Please update us OP

And congratulations on your graduation!
Your dad’s wife’s last statement really sums up her part in all this. She was going to stop at nothing to give her daughter dad, even if it meant taking him away from his own son.
If they are willing to let you live with them for cheap rent(they might say free, but as a sign of respect I would suggest paying at least something in rent, or buying most of the groceries or something to show you appreciate it) I suggest applying for post secondary near them, picking whichever has the best program for what you want to do career wise that accepts you, and visiting regularly with the other grandparents as well.  They are showing you the love you should have gotten from your dad, and it sounds like they want to support you in being happy.
That's so awesome.  I'm so glad you have all that love in your life!
Thank goodness for Tylenol and way too much ibuprofen ( doctor orders)!
From what Reddit has shown me, he will care when none of this will move out and the one he didn’t care about is the only functioning adult.
She is likely just like her selfish clueless mother.
This is good. He should also not tell his dad he did it. Just so it's that much harder for his dad to track him down and "reconsile" after sister graduates and cuts off the dad she no longer needs
Yup.  When my mom was elderly and everyone else had deserted her she kept trying to reach out through different channels telling me I was her baby and that she loved me more than anything. I laughed it only took her over 70 years to figure it out. I saw her the day before she died and did not attend her funeral. That was over 10 years ago and I still have no remorse. She made her choices long ago and sorry but you don't get a do-over when you realized you effed up
Or my step daughter who I raised has dumped me now her bio dad has reappeared and my bio son won't oet me in his life waaah
Whatever the post is, I absolutely *cannot* wait for it. 

Now I don’t want to sound like im dismissing OP’s problems in the present but it’s good that he has at least some relatives who are able to be there and be supportive. Hopefully they can help for a little while and ensure that he’s able to stay on his feet.
Yeah dad will only consider his son again when his relationship with his daughter changes. Maybe mom finds a better husband and denies dad any access to her kids cause he never adopted them, cause she let dad spend himself dry on her daughter. or stepdaughter will enter the rebellious phase and comes around with the „you are not my real dad!“ phrase. 
Then suddenly daddy remembers he has a kid somewhere in the backhand and will blurb about how all he did was for OPs benefit, he wanted for him to have a mom and family again yada yada.
Love the Golden Girls reference lol
Yup, all I can do is be better.  I was a step-dad for 6 years, I can't even begin to tell you how easy it was to not treat a child like shit.  It put a lot of my childhood into perspective and made my feelings towards my dad and his wife feel validated.
OP is 18 probably has very little anyway that wouldn't fit in something small like a minivan or uhaul van, might be able to move with just few hundred bucks tbh.
I'll be leaving after graduation but until then I'm going to be here. I'll basically bounce from grandparents to grandparents since both live close to each other and I love them all so much and they all want me.
Mail the papers to the grandparents he'll be staying with now, and ship smaller things when you get a chance so there's less to haul when the big move comes.
Lock your social security number,  just in case stepmother decide to use it to open credit cards to buy things for step daughter
Better yet, get a mini safe or storage container you can take with you that requires a padlock.
OP, that is very important. Send him a link to this post the day of your graduation. My guess is it won't be until he sees in black and white how much he F\*ed up that he gets it...
Projection because she knows she’s actively stealing the only living parent from this child (OP) (though legally an adult just about)
she wants to pretend her, her husband and daughter are a nuclear family, and her step son is just a temporary inconvenience. it’s really sad that his dad seems to be completely on board with this.
My ex from my teen years had a step mum like this. She wanted all the family resources to go to her daughter only. She expected his dad to pay for all everything for her daughter and would hit the roof if he tried to give his son anything. She would always say it had to be equal, whenever son had anything. But daughter got things “just because”. 

He had to hide money underneath a loose carpet each week for his son to have money for lunch, buses, and general allowance.
Disney villain? More like the entitled brats who don't get told no, and wind up on Cop Body Cam videos on YouTube 🤣
I came to mention the hypocrisy but you said it better than I could have.  It sucks that dad said that step.mom and the kids they had together will be there, so I should be with them.  Absolutely horrible.  He's leaving OP behind every time and he's asking his son to "understand" but won't ask his wife/SD to understand that he has a son and needs to be with him for one of the great accomplishments in life.  

Im glad OP has both sets of GPs.  At least he won't be alone on his big day.  I just can't fathom why a father would rather be with the "fam" who he has known  <10 years, but ignore his own son who has known 18 years and helped create.  

Yeah, there is no way dad can make this up to him.
The whole “denying her daughter a dad” thing … but no one is worried about OP not having a mom?!

Grow up the lot of them, apart from OP, who deserves so much better. If the dad had died too, after marrying the stepmom, he’d be Cinderella.
Her daughters graduation will be a can't miss event.
Yep. My dad's parents already had a fight with him over this whole thing.
Or more likely it’ll get to the point where he’ll need a favor from OP years down the road and hopefully OP will be in a position where he can just laugh in his face. If other posts on here are any indication.
It's worse than that.  The father suggested OP skip his graduation to attend her ceremony.  The father is cruel.
Yeah that's what I'm thinking, she already gets mom and siblings, why does he get no parent?  Glad the grandparents are calling him on it. 

I'm wondering if there's another reason dad feels like he has to go with step mom.  Wonder if he's controlling or thinks she's cheating?  Either way, totally wrong of him.
Step hag
OP should give his dad and step mom a parting gift/present for his own graduation. A binder with this post and every comment on it. They should know better. But since they don’t, let them read how hundreds of people think that they are total assholes. Because they are. NTA.
The golden child knows they are the golden child.

In my experience more than 50% of the time they will not only gladly watch their sibling/stepsibling be starved of love, time and attention, they will actively machinate situations to ensure the other child/children suffer complete alienation of affection from anyone they can keep in their thrall.

In this case step sister knows the father is choosing her event even though she has mother and siblings and it is not a one time short term achievement event. She knows her mother is setting it up so OP does not have his father at his high school graduation and she's pleased about it.

So yes, I do hold her accountable also.
I like this. But the evil part of me wants to add, tell the paternal grandparents he doesn't want to see his dad so if he moves in with them they can't take dad in when he eventually gets kicked out. If they do take op anyway, then he could make sure dad understands he's got nowhere to go now.
i feel this but i also feel like it sends a stronger message for OP to be tighter w his GPs despite his Dad being an AH. also i want to support the paternal GPs for being real family.
I’d love to hear about how shocked and unhinged your dad is going to act once he realizes you’ve moved out.
I wouldn't assume she'll do that. From what we know, he's done a lot to be supportive of her.
I seen a video of a homeless man on social media where he’s “breaking down” in the street crying about how he wishes he could find his baby’s mother and kid that he left when he was already an adult. Everyone was making excuses for him and felt so bad. I’m like “sooo you decided to be a deadbeat and now that you’re old and homeless you feel so bad.” Regret is a bitch, but not everyone is entitled to be forgiven!🤷🏻‍♀️
"My stepdaughter doesn't want me to walk her down the aisle, because her bio dad showed up and now she wants him to do it". Not a rare thing, but in this case, OP's dad would deserve it.
I’m a grandparent and I’d step up in a second for any of mine.   I feel especially for your moms parents as you are all they have left of her.    I’m so happy you have people who love you in feeling and actions.
This is the comment I scrolled so far to read. I was desperately hoping that at least one set of grandparents would be willing to let you move in with them. I’m glad you have those options. I hope you do whatever it is you want to do (school, trade school, union apprenticeship, entrepreneurship, random jobs that pay enough, whatever) and I hope you can live your best life surrounded by people who actually give a crap about your accomplishments
I moved in with my grandparents to go to college, and it’s a time I cherish deeply. My grandma died unexpectedly a few years after I graduated and moved out, and then I moved back in with my grandpa so he wasn’t alone. Congratulations on your accomplishments! Best wishes for your bright future ahead.
Don't forget to take all of your important documents (social security card, birth certificate, passport, etc).

I understand why you can't move in with your grandparents right now, but what about a friend? It would probably be best if you lived with a friend (or even between friends) instead of staying in this toxic living situation.

Could your grandparents rent a hotel room for you in the meantime? Your father and stepmother's opinions don't matter, so their possible objections are irrelevant.

Even if they call the cops, the cops won't care about an almost 18 year old leaving home. If you are 18, the cops won't care at all.
Where do you live? Ill adopt you. Ill be your mom. This is insane!  Sending you lots of mom hugs
Exactly. Her daughter deserves two parents and OP deserves none. These people are irredeemable.
he should’ve had a spine and put his kid first instead 
Oh I dunno there’s some pretty rough Disney villains. 

What about that one in the hunchback of notre dame who wanted to murder Esmeralda and everyone belonging to her race, because he wanted to fuck her. 

But yeah, yours is more realistic for sure
That's what absolutely killed me. He's going to another state because the "family" needs to be together leaving OP ALONE during a huge milestone. That has to feel like shit. 
OP is being denied a mom and a dad
This is a full golden child scenario and it will never end. 


As long as you're in his life, you will be secondary and less important than your sister and your father will only give you empty words and promises unless he has some type of massive catalyst to change his life and outlook
NTA

Well done to your grandparents for stepping up.

Your Dad is blinded by his bonus daughter and he takes you for granted- that must suck.

He’ll beg your forgiveness in about 10 years time.

You go and be you!
Is there any way you could live with them or other relatives once you graduate HS?
Maybe you can go live with them and attend college there
I bet your dad will change his ways if he learns your grandparents will disinherit him.
Just continue mentioning to them. That he stopped being a dad to you the second he remarried. Hopefully they disinherit him and put your name down instead. It isn't fair for you to miss out.

And no. Money won't make up for an absent father but... The petty part of me thinks that statement of the change in will alone is worth it.
OP, read through all of this, feel it on a cellular level, so I'm happy there's a lot of good advice for you. Sift out what you need. 

One more piece from me, it's Quiet Quitting. You do not need to make announcements or write letters, there's a lot of stress involved with things like this. Give yourself permission to just not do it. Frankly, walking away without drama is a huge thing and very much overlooked imho. 

It seems, from your comments, that this is exactly what you want to do anyway, you are not wrong. When you are done, your done. 

Congratulations on your diploma and hard work 👏 

Promise all we internet strangers that once you have this behind you and are in a safe place, that you will go have fun. You deserve it. I'm so glad your GPs stepped up, they are treasures.
I’d tell your step mom and father “by not denying step sister a dad, you’ve denied me one. I listened to what you two have very clearly told me and so going forward, I no longer have a father and you only have a daughter now. I hope you’re happy with the choice you have made.”
Damn man sorry your dad has blinders on and expected you just to see everything how he does. That’s nuts bc you’re his son and you lost your mom at a young age, all you want is some attention and love from your pops man. That’s not too much to ask at all. I don’t know what to tell you but your NTA, I’m really glad that you have supportive grandparents on both sides that love you a bunch that you can talk to.  Not that it matters but your dad did lose his wife too, so maybe you remind him of her and that makes him act differently towards you or something, who knows. Just try not to stay angry about it little bro! You don’t have to forgive anyone for anything. Congratulations on graduating, good luck to you in the future!!
Good. The whole family - dad, step-mom, step-siblings, and half-siblings - should be going to your graduation. An award doesn't equal graduation. If anything, the step-mom could take her one daughter to the award ceremony out of state, but everyone else - first and foremost your dad - should be going to the graduation and throwing a graduation party.
I don't blame you one bit, and to prove your point, I would secure another place to live, and after you graduate, pack up and leave.  I would also tell your dad that this is the last time he will see you, and ALL them will be blocked, and you no longer have a dad and your mom would be embarrassed and disgusted by him.   Good luck to you, and I'm truly sorry that has treated you poorly. He's a despicable and disgusting man.
Stick tight to your grandparents. It's clear they don't like that your dad is prioritizing his stepdaughter over you, and they'll be much more open to supporting you emotionally (and possibly financially) in the future. I'm glad you have some familiar support outside of your dad.
I thought that was the father’s wife?
I think his step"mom" suggested that he skills it. Equally not cool.
Or if she's controlling
This one where I would love to see the dad or his wife post asking ITA for skipping my (step) son’s graduation for my (step) daughter’s award ceremony?”

Call me petty but I’d love to see them get flamed in the comments. 

That said I’m cheering OP on and wishing that his next chapter is just the start of building his chosen family, and never wanting for love and support as he lives his best life.
Yeah I was going to say the same thing. Her mom and their half siblings were already going, the dad already said he was going to OP's graduation, but step sis *still* was like "nooo but I need you there too!" She knew exactly what she was doing.
Yeah I could see the stepdaughter scheduling important events on his birthday or getting married around the same time. It does happen
Absolutely not true in most cases. The vast majority of golden children I've known genuinely had no idea until adulthood. Things have always been this way and it takes a lot of time and brain development to realize that way is fucked up.

Let's not forget that the golden child is being abused and neglected too, just in a different way.
Yup!!! Added it to my list of things to avoid in men, at about 15 years old.

It’s shocking how many people don’t stand up for their own children when they’ve got a controlling spouse.
Omg I don't know *why* every time I think about Disney villains I always forget about that movie??!! He was horrendous 😣
Or even worse - Dad treating OP as a 2nd class child is necessary to his new wife to 'prove' that he loves her and stepdaughter 'enough'. Disgusting.

Either way, this situation is horrible. 

As a mother - OP is right, HS graduation trumps almost everything else. Maybe not a college graduation or a wedding/funeral, but it most definitely ranks much higher in order of importance to a competition award.
Decidedly *not* his sister. That’s a distinction OP made pretty clear. 

Otherwise, yep.
This is not necessarily true. It could be that the Dad is so focused on NOT treating the step daughter as secondary that he's completely oblivious to the fact that he has fully moved his son into that position. 

Instead of working on fairness (I attended your dance recital last time so this time I need to go to the basketball game) he has it in his head that it is wrong to choose his own son over the non biological child. 

He needs a wake up call.
I see it as more of an extreme case of the dad being p-whipped, but it's horrible for this kid in any case.
Frankly, even if the dad attended the graduation ceremony, I would go LC if I were OP. The man has spent YEARS blatantly favoring one child over another, one of the worst things you can do as a parent. I DON'T CARE if it's a stepchild. His behavior has been abysmal.

**EDIT:** Also, how has it  not occurred to the dad that the daughter has her mother AND siblings attending her award ceremony, while OP has NO immediate family attending his (far more important/rare) event? Obviously the right thing to do is let his wife/other kids support the daughter while he supports the son. Is the father so dense this didn't occur to him, or does OP mean so little to him that he just doesn't care? Given the mom's whole "you should miss your graduation ceremony to come to my daughter's nothing event" attitude I'm guessing she wears the pants in this relationship and OP's weak willed father follows her lead, at the expense of his son. Probably won't wake up until a few years go by and he realizes he actually lost his biological son just to win the favor of a cruel, calloused and controlling cow.
OP says in the post that he won't be living there much longer, so at the very least it seems he has plans to move out sooner rather than later, whether to live with the grandparents or just go away to college.
Sad but true. He should want to be a dad to OP because he loves him, not because he wants money after his parents die.
And hopefully they leave dad and her kids share to OP
But then dear old dad would try to guilt OP into giving half of it to his "sister" just so she doesn't feel left out!
Step-mom suggested and father didn't shut it down, so in my book he is also to blame for that.
If the father didn't shut it down, he is complicit himself
Lol right? 🙄.  The controlling party is extremely clear, and to conclude that the dad is controlling takes some massively flexible mental gymnastics.  

He may delude himself that he's in control, that wouldn't surprise me.
Even if they know, it’s not a child’s responsibility to correct their parents.
A competition where her mother will already be there, so she has a parent representing.  He has zero parents to support him.  I’m shocked the dad hasn’t put this together.
Right like the part where she said op could skip his own graduation to go to something for the sister is ridiculous. She clearly prioritizes her kids over him especially with statements like you can’t cheat my daughter out of a dad- but it’s okay if daughter steals OP’s dad while OP has no other parent. Absolutely ridiculous I don’t know how adults can justify doing this to kids.
That was my first thought- he prioritizing her because he doesn’t want to hear any gruff from the wife
>Dad treating OP as a 2nd class child is necessary to his new wife to 'prove' that he loves her and stepdaughter 'enough'. Disgusting.

Oh stepmom definitely pulls OP's dads strings with that. OP said his stepmom told him to miss his own graduation to go with them and support her daughter. That one sentence in his whole post told me everything about how the dynamics in that house are. I feel terrible for OP.
THiS ☝🏼Put yourself First… step mom can go to daughter’s award ceremony Alone. You are NTA but dear ol’ Dad sure is!!! Tell him you will never forget this for the rest of your life! I sure did not but that is a story for another time. You were completely right. He is absolutely a doormat to new wife’s demands and she does not care because you are not her child! She wants to deny you his time and I am sure, harassed him if he does not put her daughter first! You are right to put your foot down and say never again. His assumption that he can always deprioritize you with no consequence is now done. If he does not see where he is wrong and that his actions cause hurt and harm both emotionally and psychologically, then you have to protect yourself! Go away to school, get a therapist and have a great life! What a weak willed loser! Hugs OP!!
Agree the mom saying "you can't deny my child a father" yet OP has basically lost both parents.    What a witch.
Oh this is definitely it. The mother even wanted him to skip his own graduation to go to her daughter's event. The dad is 100% doing this to keep the new wife happy. They both suck.
I wonder if stepmom is ever choosing OP - you know, since he doesn't have a mom. My guess is NOPE.
Normally I might agree with you, but from both the post and OP's comments it seems that the father has had this pointed out to him repeatedly, including by his own parents (OP's grandparents) and has continued to behave this way, so this is clearly a deliberate choice.
He already had multiple wake up calls. He doesn't care. His daughter is the golden child.
He's getting one. OP already told his father, ahem sperm donor, that they won't be included in his life going forward.
There are certain events that take priority over others. Graduations, Weddings, Funerals, and Urgent/Emergent medical issues to name a few. His graduation **should** take priority over her awards thing. It’s not just being “fair” and trading between each’s activities, it’s completely disregarding the milestone accomplishments of one child to attend a ceremony of the other.
Dad hasn’t moved OP into second position, he’s disregarded him altogether. Dad is the AH, stepmom is the c word.

NTA, OP. Sincerely hope you enjoy your time with your grandparents and that you have a wonderful graduation. Your dad may be so much dog shit to be scraped off your shoe, but your grandparents clearly love you. Treasure your time with them. And Congratulations!
Dad just received his wake up call. Hopefully Dad doesn't silence it.
I don't think the wife is clueless in this.
it sounds like Dad is fully on board with constantly favoring his stepdaughter.
Asking OP to skip his graduation in favor of the not-sister’s award ceremony is the coup de grace of all fuck-you’s. I’d be going NC too.
I feel like people always blame the stepmother and say she is cruel and controlling and the poor man is just a victim.  

The father is the one with an obligation to his son, and he is the one who is failing him.  No matter what she does, he's choosing to go along with it, even though he is an adult who can make his own choices, has his own money, and access to transportation.  This isn't someone who needs his wife's assistance to get to an event.  

I spent decades blaming my stepmother because the patriarchy, but really the person who failed me was my father.  Everyone in our family called her a stupid controlling cow behind her back and made excuses for him.  But while he was an adult with his own funds and access to transportation and the ability to make his own choices, he repeated chose to fail me, and that is not on her.
The fact he's favored the step child over his bio makes it even worse IMO.
Absolutely. I hope that bitch turns his life into hell and after long years of suffering he tragically realises its his own fault. Bless karma!
This. My step-mother was abusive but my father enabled her behavior. He was also to blame.
My dad was like this. Other people were more important then me. His wife (now ex) couldn't do anything wrong. 

I understand you're hurt know. But he will regret this. And then you are the strong and big one. Remember that
Definitely. It's possible the 14yo knows she's benefiting but I'm not holding a child responsible for stopping her parents' abuse.
> A competition where her mother will already be there, so she has a parent representing.

As a parent, this is not complicated. One parent goes to one ceremony, one goes to the other. If there were only one parent in the mix this *might* be harder, but realistically a HS graduation trumps a 14 year old's sports award.

Dad needs to get his head out of his ass.
But according to dad's wife he can just skip his HS graduation and support his sister and if he doesn't he's the selfish one.  Dad doesn't care, wife doesn't care, no one cares, so there is no point in putting it together.
Just like stepdaughter doesn’t have a dad, OP doesn’t have a mom. Did Father’s wife ever think she could be the mother OP missed? Doesn’t sound that way. 

NTA
Sounds like OP lost both parents when his mom died.
He doesn’t want to put it together. He wants to keep his wife happy, even if it comes at the cost of his son. It’s disgusting.
I can imagine the conversation now: "But she grew up without a dad and he has had a dad his whole life.  She is your daughter too and she is going through a lot right now, but he will be fine.  Graduation is tiresome and just a bunch of boring speeches anyway."
I'd also like to point out that stepmother has some big brass ones for even suggesting that OP forgo his own graduation just to attend her daughter's award ceremony.
This literally made me sad :( because the dad is showing that he literally dont give a crap. :(
Dad sounds like he has more fingernails than brain cells.
I’m sure his dad has put this together. I think he doesn’t care, or thinks he would rather keep the peace with his new wife and daughter. He kinda just discarded his son from what I’ve read.
And then step-mom has the fucking AUDACITY to say this poor kiddo "can skip his ceremony so they can all do something as a family"
THE FUQ????
This is exactly what I was thinking! I really hope OP has his grandparents or other relatives to attend his graduation, but I agree, his dad skipping graduation is inexcusable. It sounds like the stepmom was already planning to go to the awards ceremony, so it would make sense for the dad to go to the graduation- I don't understand why they won't do that.
I agree. In most families, the parents would split the job of being at two children's activities. In this instance, the mother should go with the daughter, and the father should go to the graduation. Based on other comments made by OP, it is clear that the dad has gone overboard, trying to make the daughter feel special to the exclusion of his own son. Hopefully, OP can leave and go live with his grandparents as soon as he's through with high school. I'm so happy that your grandparents are all coming to your graduation!
This is the part I just don’t get. I grew up in an area with a lot of big families, and it’s always been typical for parents to utilize “divide and conquer” when they have multiple events at the same time.  One parent hits the band concert, the other goes to the wrestling tournament. We had a triple whammy one time, so even my son pitched in to make sure his sister had a cheering section for her dare “graduation”.  Who are these parents who don’t make sure that each kid has support when there are enough of them to go around??
Yeah that was messed up she should’ve been telling the dad to go support his son at his graduation and she would support the daughter.
While she cheats him out of a mom.
AGREED.
Considering she told OP to skip his own graduation ceremony for the award ceremony...
I wondered if step mom was trying to get rid of OP. That way step mom can pretend she is not second wife by eliminating child of first wife. That way it’s always just her never anyone before her in step mom mind. Even mentally rewriting history so step daughter belongs to OP dad and OP
doesn’t exist.
OP has lost his mother, so has no parent actively choosing him.  His father doesn’t realise he has just lost his son who is likely off to college.  I’m glad he has his grandparents as an emotional backup as this is terrible parenting.
Dad has set the wake up call to eternal snooze button!
Apparently this is not the wake up call he’s answering. “He’ll make it up to him! He promises!!!”  Never gonna happen.  OP: NTA!!
Dad had years to figure this out. He didn’t and he won’t figure this out until he loses his son.
I was going to say, it was bad enough no one came for OP but saying, “You don’t need to attend your own graduation.”
That's what I thought too.
Yeah, that's absolutely NC territory once the OP can do so.

The OP will only have one high school graduation. Even if the 14 year old's award is super rare, the OP should never have been asked to skip his own graduation.
Yeah, that's just bonkers.
The father is the one who is failing the son. But  I would be surprised if the father came up with this whole "we need to overtly favor my stepdaughter over my bio son" idea by himself. I suspect it was the stepmother's suggestion and he was just too pathetic/shitty of a father to refuse. I thought this was evident here:

**His wife told me I could have come with them and I don't need to attend the ceremony but could support "my sister". I said her daughter's not my sister and I do not want to support their family anymore and I will be out of their hair soon. She called me selfish and told me I can't deny her daughter a dad.**

This line in particular tells me the awful stepmother is the one steering the ship.

Though I do fully agree that ultimately it's OP's father who has failed him.
You should blame your stepmother. Part of any decent blended family situation involves both parents working together for all the children. If she can't be fair to the kids, she's scummy even if she doesn't technically have any responsibility to you. That's just an awful way to look at it.

But that should not be an excuse to let your father off the hook either. He actually has the responsibility for you. Both of them have a moral responsibility to you and both failed separately. Both can be blamed for that.
Perhaps, but surely, she helped turn his screws of indifference. Did she ever give him hell for his actions towards you? Or did she just sit back and enjoyed the benefits of his inactions.
AITA for laughing in my cousin's face when she tried to stage an intervention for my "drug use?"
I (27M) have a condition which causes me to overproduce earwax. I don't tell people about it because I was bullied for it growing up. Only my wife and parents know. Every other day, I have to put medication in each ear, let it sit, then flush it out with a rubber tipped syringe. This prevents ear infections, vertigo, permanent hearing loss, and worsening of my tinnitus. I have dealt with all of these things to some extent, so I stay on top of my eardrop regimen. If my alarm goes off when I'm with others, I go to the bathroom for 20 minutes and knock it out. If I don't follow my schedule I forget, so I can't put it off. 

Two weeks ago, my mom hosted family dinner. My cousin Kara (37F) saw me waltz off to the bathroom to do my thing, syringe in hand, and asked what I was doing. I said just a minor medical thing. She kept pushing but I didn't want to say anything because she gossips. I told her it's personal and scooted past. When I left, she was standing in the hallway. She asked what took so long and why the toilet didn't flush. I said none of her business. She said she didn't mean to offend. 

Last weekend, my friend called me to invite me out to lunch with some buddies. He said  to meet up at his house so we wouldn't have to drive separately. I arrive at his house to find Kara and my friends sitting solemnly on the couch. Kara said they were here to talk about my "problem" and that they just wanted to help. I said there is no problem. Suddenly it clicked in my head what this was about. I couldn't help but laugh a little bit out of shock. She asked what was so funny, and I said first of all why didn't you talk to my wife or my parents? She said she didn't want to involve my "enablers" which just made me laugh harder. She looked annoyed and said she was done trying to help. I said that's alright by me She stormed out. 

I explained to my friends. They knew I have a condition but never pressed me on it, I guess when Kara approached them they thought I was lying. Obviously I'd rather they know than worry about me being an addict when l'm not. I thanked them for their support anyways. Kara had apparently reached all of my friends by through my social media. We all got a good hearty laugh out of it, which Kara must have heard because she was, of course, eavesdropping. She burst back in and told me to tell them the truth, to which I said I did. My friend kicked her out. We went for lunch and I thought that was that. 

My mom called me yesterday and told me she had talked to Kara about the whole thing and explained. She said Kara was very upset with me and essentially called me an asshole for not explaining, and laughing in her face and embarrassing her. I said I was embarrassed and that Kara had no right to my info. I think she shouldn't go around snooping and making assumptions. My mom still thinks I should apologize.

ETA: She didn't see my alarm go off, just ran into me on her way from the kitchen. My alarm isn't for dinner time, it's for 9:15pm, I do it at home most of the time.

Edit: broke up the wall of text. Sorry about that!
Welcome to /r/AmITheAsshole. Please view our [voting guide here](https://www.reddit.com/r/AmItheAsshole/wiki/faq#wiki_what.2019s_with_these_acronyms.3F_what_do_they_mean.3F), and remember to use **only one** judgement in your comment.

OP has offered the following explanation for why they think they might be the asshole:

 > After my mom contacted me I'm wondering if laughing at her was too harsh, especially since she was only trying to help.

Help keep the sub engaging!

#Don’t downvote assholes!

Do upvote interesting posts!

 [Click Here For Our Rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/AmItheAsshole/about/rules) and [Click Here For Our FAQ](https://www.reddit.com/r/AmItheAsshole/wiki/faq)

##Subreddit Announcements

Follow the link above to learn more

---

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose/?to=/r/AmItheAsshole) if you have any questions or concerns.*

*Contest mode is 1.5 hours long on this post.*
NTA, obviously. Kara made a complete fool out of herself- you didn't have to help at all. Seriously, who says "This person went into the bathroom for a mysterious reason, ONCE that I know about - they must have a drug problem!" And then to stage an intervention, wow!
NTA I went through something similar with someone who saw me giving myself insulin and assumed that it was something else. I was meeting a bunch of people for dinner, and gave myself my insulin shot while I was in my truck. Well, someone saw me in the parking lot and assumed I was shooting up, then ran right into the restaurant and about chewed their lips off in their excitement to tattle on me.

I was thoroughly embarrassed, but I also had my insulin kit in my purse and got the joy of verbally cutting them off at the knees in front of everyone. Even so, it was still horrible, because people at all the other tables were staring at the drama. 

I left without eating because it upset me so bad, and then later I had a blood sugar crash from taking insulin without a meal. 

The person never apologized, either. To this very day I think they’re still firmly convinced that I am a junkie and fooling everybody. 🙄
[removed]
NTA

She owes you a major apology as her spreading untrue information about a possible drug addiction could’ve caused you to be harmed. 

What if somebody shared this information with your employer?  Depending on your profession and your employer, you could’ve been suspended or lost your job.
No! NTA. No apology needed. I would have laughed my ass off too. She took a small thing that was none of her business and inflated it into a big production that is now all about her hurt feelings.  Dramatic much? 
NTA, rather obviously.

I'll refrain from waxing poetic, but you have every right to be irritated about someone prying into a medical condition that you'd prefer to keep private.
NTA. 

Soooo… your cousin went behind your back, and told your friends you have a drug problem, yet YOU should apologize? Nawwwww.
NTA definitely.  your mother is ridiculous for demanding you apologize.  

Kara is not entitled to your condition or your regimen for making sure it doesn't get worse.  and her bothering your friends and making shit up because you wanted to keep your business private is ridiculous.
NTA.  It sounds like it was more about her being a hero and saving her cousin than it was about seeing if you really had a problem.
NTA. She had no right to make assumptions about illegal drug use based on you going to the bathroom with a syringe. There are a lot of possible reasons​. You were polite enough to say it was a minor medical thing, which is more than you needed to.

Having made the assumption based on nothing she tells a group of your friends you have a drug problem. Laughing at her was probably the nicest way to handle it. A lot of people would be very angry and would have gone off. You handled it fine, she should have stayed out of the whole thing.
NTA. Little Miss Nosey embarrassed herself, and did a great job of it. She owes you the apology, if anything.
NTA.

Also, of all the addicts I've known in my life, not one used a timer for their "uses". And I've had many a variety of acquaintances and friends who have done this or that in my life. It's not my place to judge, if you're a good person and you have substances you do out of my eyesight, so be it.

BUT

I've only seen people I know (including myself) use alarms as med reminders.

Though, I know it's terrible, I do find the concept of an "ope, it's time for me to use again" alarm kind of hilarious.
My daughter has that issue too!  Right now she goes to the ear doctor every 2 months just to get her ears cleaned out but she still has issues with hearing.  I was hoping she would grow out of it, but I’m glad to hear that at least there is something she can do on her own when she is older.

By the way, definitely NTA!
NTA. You're right, she could have asked your parents or your wife if there is anything wrong with you. It's her fault not to and made a huge leap of an assumption it's a drug problem.
NTA  It's hardly your fault that she's catastrophically stupid.
NTA but I don't understand why your friends are so willing to go along with your cousin was saying. Makes no sense.
NTA.  Jumping to conclusions can give you a nasty case of humiliation. 

Accusing someone of drug use without any hard evidence is irresponsible, and potentially damaging. 

Setting up an *intervention* with your friends?! Over a single unexplained bathroom break? 

She deserved her embarrassment - if she doesn’t have consequences she might do something like this again.
Your cousin embarrassed herself and wants an apology from *you*? No, thank you.

NTA.
He’ll no!  She involved all your friends on social media!!!
NTA and F no to apologizing to her ASSumptions. Not only that, but secretly rallying up your friends to confront you. Sounds like she needs a class on when signs to tell if someone is using and to keep to her own f'ing business.
>My mom still thinks I should apologize.

"Kara, my mom wants me to apologize so here goes. I'm sorry you feel you are entitled to know my personal medical information even after you're told it's none of your business. Then you jump to incorrect conclusions about my private info and get other people involved when it's none of their business either. Going forward, I expect you to respect my boundaries. I regret having to talk to you like you're a child because as a grown ass adult, you should know better."
As someone who has had to run off for less than usual treatments at least than expected times, I find this all hilarious. NTA

I'm glad she was looking out for you, but she went about it wrong and needs to admit her mistake. 

Now I wonder how many people have thought I was doing drugs in my mother's bathroom...
NTA. She saw you on one occasion go into the bathroom with a rubber syringe and decided, based upon that one thing alone, that you were a drug addict and needed an intervention? She then went out of her way to contact your friends on social media for this "intervention," but left out your wife and parents because they were your "inablers." On what planet does any of that make any sense. I'm sorry, but a rubber syringe, going into a bathroom for 20 minutes, and not flushing a toilet just doesn't scream "evidence of a major drug addiction" to me! 

And under no circumstances should you apologize to her, and your mother seems to be having more empathy for your cousin than you, which seems a bit backwards. Your cousin concocted an entire addiction scenario in her head on really no evidence, but didn't even confirm it with anyone? She contacted complete strangers and bypassed your own family, which was incredibly odd. You had every right to laugh at her. Why isn't your mom angry at her for calling your mom an enabler and basically saying if her child ever did have a drug problem, she wouldn't get them help? That's where I would have an issue. She embarrassed herself.
You should bring up her attempted intervention at every family event from now on.

NTA
NTA

Initially I was somewhat tempted to go NAH, however after considering it your cousin had to go through several leaps of logic and assumptions to get to the final point.  In the end she even refused to believe you and doubled down on insulting you, your friends, and your family.   No apology needed.
NTA Kara needs to touch grass and get a hobby. She saw one episode of intervention and thought she was an expert
Should've told her you were an Ear-oine user.

I'll let myself out.
Tell Kara to go eat shit. Come on now. Nta
NTA
She embarrassed herself so bad and it's hilarious. Has this girl ever met a drug user before? Or does she think they set alarms for their daily dose, take the syringe out in front of their family and waltz over to the bathroom? Not to mention people who reached the point of injecting would look so decrepit it'd have raised alarms a long time ago?
NTA

>She looked annoyed and said she was done trying to help. I said that's alright by me She stormed out.

wait, she set up an intervention but wasn't ready to deal with a dismissive response from somebody she believed had a drug problem. I have never participated in an intervention, but I am pretty sure you should expect the first few unhelpful responses. drug addicts wouldn't be turning over a new leaf in the first minutes. 

your response of laughing and saying "thankyou but" is fine, and far nicer than she should have been expecting of an actual adict.
NTA. She ***ass***-umed.
This is either a great work of fiction or totally hilarious.
NTA but a question.

Do you do both ears, every other day, or one ear one day, then the other ear the day after, and alternate?
NTA. Worst case? Is you can talk to her about it and tell her she should have tried to talk to your FAMILY (her family as well) first. 

And instead, she went the route of 'everyone is a monster and enabling him but me'. I don't know what the hell went through her head to do that. instead of just bringing it up with you or your immediate family if she was actually concerned. 

  
End of the day: NTA Op. she full-stop made the decision that clearly you were an addict before even talking to you.
NTA! If you get further pressure to apologize, let them know that you are the person who needs an apology.
NTA. Cousin is totally TA.
NTA It sounds like cousin is the one who should have to face an intervention when it comes to her gossiping. I'm sure plenty of family members would have a thing to say about it.
NTA

Your medical issues aren't her business. People excuse themselves to take all kinds of medications at certain times--pain medications, insulin, birth control, antibiotics, etc.

She isn't entitled to an answer. I mean, yay that people care, but she got a lot of people involved after being told to butt out, and that sounds less like caring and more like being a nosy Nelly who had it coming when her insatiable need to be in other people's private business came back to bite her.
I call shenanigans. No way this is a real story.
NTA.

You told her all you needed to tell her and then she tried escalating it and now YOU'RE the one needing to apologise, I just dont get this.
You have some weird fucking friends.
You also need new friends. Are they always that gullible ?
People need to stop throwing impromptu interventions.

Even with professional help, interventions are very dangerous.  The success rates for interventions are pretty poor, and some result in suicides or overdoses.

Interventions should be an absolute last ditch effort.  They should only be done under the guidance of a professional, and several steps should be taken before the intervention.

If OP really was an addict, there is a very good chance that cousin Kara's intervention would have made things worse.

NTA
Don’t apologize
F Kara. NTA
Kara must be as dumb as a post because it's a rubber tip syringe. OP could not give himself an injection of drugs with that syringe if he wanted to. NTA!!
What’s going on with Kara? Is something wrong? Is she projecting or reliving an old pain? And why did she feel her first option was to make a big scene? You are obviously NTA, and no, I don't think you need to apologize. If Mom is getting in the middle, maybe Mom should spend time with Kara to figure out what’s going on with her. This feels like it was for the drama, and that's worrying behaviour for someone her age, I think.
 NTA. Tell your mom to stop being an enabler. Lol.
NTA. You are supposed to apologize to her for defaming and slandering you?!?! Pffffffft
NTA  Apology: Kara I'm sorry your a busybody who goes around butting into other people's lives. I'm sorry you're the type of person who goes around spreading lies and gossip to try and make herself look good.     Ask mom if this apology is okay?
>She said she didn't mean to offend.

Tell her she did, and she owes you an apology, not the other way around.

NTA
NTA. This belongs in  the look at my halo sub. You robbed her of the chance to make your imaginary addiction all about her. How dare you! Shame is a useful tool in society and she should feel ashamed of herself for being a presumptuous, meddling fool.
Don't you dare apologize to her...I'm with you.
NTA kara owes you an apology for interfering in your life. your mum owes you an apology for sharing your medical information. 


Kara could have cost your friendships, your job etc. 


She was told you had a medical thing to take care of and  jumped to conclusions that you were an addict. 


this girl obviously has never been around active addiction if she thinks addicts need to set a timer  and  show no sign of intoxication afterwards.


Your mum knew you didn't want it shared. Her answer to Kara should have neen Leave your cousin alone, he has a minor medical matter (as you had already told her) and you do not need to know more than that. thank you for caring about him but you have no reason to worry.  instead your mum thought it was better to share your information with her probably in the hope of stopping her but she still broke your trust. 
Lmao stage an intervention for her fucking nosiness.
Maybe I'm petty but I'd stage an intervention for her being a nosy busybody. I bet you'd find plenty of people who'd be interested in helping.
NTA, you have no reason, or need, to tell ANYONE about your medical issues. Your cousin however has gone behind your back and tried her hardest to embarrass you in front of your people. Quite honestly, if she doesn't get on her knees and beg for your forgiveness, I'd cut her off permanently 👍🏻
You should probably tell your mom she called her an enabler
She should apologise to you for blaming you for being a drug addict. Plus since when have you taken drugs with a syringe and a timer? Then calling all your friends together to try and humiliate you, just because you wouldnt tell her what you was doing in a bathroom once.  Andof course you'll laugh if someone bames you for taking drugs. Its more shock. 

Tell your mom your not apologising and that she labelled your Mom and wife as enablers,  thinking youre taking drugs. See what she says, because I would be livid at her for saying that.
Um Kara owes you a huge public apology. She's been going around telling people you're a drug addict! That could affect your job and how you support your family. That is defamation plan and simple.
NTA

Instead of an apology, you need to have an intervention for your cousin. 

They are a gossip and a snoop. 

Get family and friends to make a listing of times they went overboard with other people's personal information.

Let them be the one squirming because of their conduct.
NTA obviously. I've known actual drug addicts, they don't have an alarm for their addiction. They also don't take out the equipment for their addiction in front of others unless they feel confident that the people won't spread the truth around.

Cousin owes you a huge apology. What if her words had gotten around to people like your employer or someone else connected with your job? What if the police heard about it? She could have ruined your reputation and your truth with what she did.

Is there an update with all this?
Not to make light of what must be a best an annoying medical condition, but the whole situation is hilarious! Your cousin is ridiculous. I've survived my ex-husband's addiction and nothing about your behavior puts off addict vibes. Either she's watched one too many Lifetime movies or as someone else suggested, a narcissist or busybody or something. Oh, NTA and please don't apologize and tell your mother that you owe nobody an apology or explanation since you weren't the one to cross any lines.
glorious marry unused nine fall weary correct direction enjoy sugar

 *This post was mass deleted and anonymized with [Redact](https://redact.dev)*
Well bless her heart. 

NTA
NTA

Kara did this all to herself. She needs to mind her own damn business.
"I'm sorry you jumped to the wrong conclusion and embarrassed yourself."
Ok, but all it would take for her to stop helping a family member she thinks is on drugs is someone laughing at her lmao? Is she dumb?
NTA   
 She should apoogize for making assumptions and be thankful yall just giggled at her.
I’d call her and when she answers just start laughing some more; I’m a petty jerk tho. NTA
So Kara literally hasn’t apologised or feels remorse or ANYTHING other than feeling embarrassed for HERSELF huh? 

WOWWWWW
Kara sounds like a drama junkie. Maybe you should have an intervention for it?

NTA
Absofuckinglutely NOT.

Kara, and now your mom should be apologizing.

Kara actively slandered you, and possibly even commit libel if she typed any of outrageous claims to your friends and god knows who else.

You don't apologize to the people committing crimes against you!

At the VERY LEAST they should be apologizing. I would talk to a lawyer jic there is some other fall out TO YOUR LIFE from her bull shit.
Now how is it your fault she assumed and you know what they say when people assume. I have wet wax myself and periodically use peroxide in each ear for 15 mins. Been doing it since a kid after constant sinus infections and tinnitus haven’t had one since then. Ironically it took until early 2000s for the medical field recognized it as a good thing. You would think drs would try to validate old remedies more but each to their own.
NTA!! She's quite obviously at least a little dramatic. You don't owe her an apology, if she wouldn't have put her nose where it didn't belong and over react to something she had no idea about, she wouldn't have been embarrassed. Your medical information is no one's business. Though I will say, you are not alone! Kids are cruel and I'm sorry you were bullied about it. 🫂
NTA - The only one that needs to be apologizing is her.
Hahahahahaha!   

NTA and no apologies needed, they can get bent.
NTA.  

An intervention that doesn’t include your closest family members?

No.
NTA. " Main Character Misguided Crucader".
NTA, and I'm surprised your mom isn't sticking up for YOU.
NTA. She tried to make it about her. 
Play stupid games win stupid prizes
NTA,

There are many medical things that involve a syringe and time in the bathroom. She just wanted to gossip
NTA

INFO: Why wouldn't she talk to other family members before gossiping?

Your personal medical conditions are not anybody's business, esp. for a gossip.

Loving, helpful "family" don't make situations worse. Maybe Kara needs to learn that.
She sounds like she has a savior complex when she incorrectly assumed you were an addict she wanted to look like a good hero for started an intervention and look like such a good person but got pissed off when she just looked like an idiot who didn’t even bother to ask your wife and parents first.

She stuck her nose into someone else’s business, got involved and spread misinformation based on zero facts or evidence and got embarrassed when she was proven to be an idiot

NTA

And it was horrible of her to spread around a rumor that you were an addict cause if they got around to an employer that could have hurt your job
NTA - Karas a dangerous idiot and likely a drama queen.

Never apologise
NTA

Kara can no longer be trusted.
Nta why on earth would you apologize for Kara jumping to conclusions? She embarrassed herself. 
NTA. She needs to apologise to you.
sounds like Kara folded quicker than a lawn chair. 

she'd have been in some real trouble if she was dealing with a actual addict. 

i definitely wouldn't apologize. her heart was in the right place, but her brain wasn't. she learned a valuable life lesson that day. if she doesn't want to be embarrassed or laughed at, perhaps she should mind her own business.
NTA.

She is as daft as a person can be. You did nothing wrong.
NTA

Your cousin chose to go the extreme route. She wanted to be seen as a savior. If she truly had been concerned, she would have talked to you privately at some point after the dinner and expressed her concerns. She did not do that. She called your parents and your wife enablers for her made-up theory of your supposed drug problem that she was going to try and save you from, and she roped your friends in to have an audience.
>Kara and my friends sitting solemnly on the couch. Kara said they were here to talk about my "problem" and that they just wanted to help... She looked annoyed and said she was done trying to help.

That was quick.
NTA. Your mom is way out of line to ask for an apology. I think it would be a kindness to have a conversation with Kara though. You should explain that people have a right to keep their medical conditions private and you are very concerned that not only did she refuse to accept your explanation of a medical condition, she immediately assumed you had a problem and tried to stage an intervention. Why would she do that? Then see what she has to say. 

Hopefully she will apologize. If she does the sorry but… justification thing, you tell her that she should do some soul searching to figure out why she was unwilling to allow you your medical privacy. Tell her that you have observed that she seems to enjoy telling people about others’ personal problems. Tell her that her life should be interesting enough without needing to make herself feel important by sharing gossip, and especially without making up things that are not true.

You could also suggest that she owes your wife and parents an apology for slandering them as enablers without so much as a conversation. Also why was she so ready to think the worst of you when there were three other people who felt it was fine? She also owes your friends an apology for presenting her gossip as fact. You might even suggest to your parents and hers that therapy for the cousin would be helpful. 

Personally I would probably also chat with your friends. Why would they decide to go along with an intervention and think you are lying about the simple explanation (medical condition) just based on one person’s communication? Why wouldn’t they just tell her that you have a medical condition? Do they think you tend to stretch the truth? 

Probably worth finding out if your friends think a lack of integrity isn’t wildly out of character so you can work to fix that. Why wouldn’t even one reach out to check with you first? An intervention is a fairly serious step to be taking if there were no other indicators, especially as there are many medical conditions that require the use of a syringe to manage. 
Dude, get off the ear drugs man.
NTA

As a T1D who has used insulin syringes for literal decades, I’m guessing an ear wax syringe and a drug syringe have very different tips. Which makes your cousin an idiot. She *should* be embarrassed. 

But FWIW, living with T1D has also taught me that sometimes it’s just easier to answer the question (when she asked at dinner). Privacy Hill isn’t always one worth dying on.
Its not hard to apologize after assuming someone has a problem when it's medical
you should sue for slander
NTA. Kara stuck her nose where it didn't belong and got the embarrassment she deserved.
NTA - but do not apologize.  She's embarrassed because she did something stupid.  She owes you an apology.  Tell your mother that, and for her to stop enabling her bad and rude behavior.  She won't stop if no one calls her out or shames her for being a snoop and gossip.

Edit: forgot a word
NTA she owes YOU an apology. That is wackadoodle behavior.
NTA. You told her it was none of her business, she didn’t listen and went out of her way to embarrass you.
NTA. Cousin seems to have a bad case of “first thought, best thought, only thought”
Oh my word, this is amazing 🤣 She didn't bother to tell you she was worried about this and she didn't want to "involve your enablers"? Nah, she came to her own conclusion and didn't want to be told she was wrong. She wanted this "aren't I just the best cousin, caring about you so much and making sure your friends know you need help?" When in reality, she has no idea what she's talking about. This wasn't ever about trying to help you, it was about attention for herself because only a "great person" would step in the way she did. That's why she didn't say "oh, wow, I'm so sorry I assumed, I hope we can get past this" when she was eavesdropping on your explanation to your friends.
NTA but Kara is not a concerned family member- she is a terrible gossip.  She never saw eyes dilated funny, didn’t see you stumble, didn’t hear you slur, just saw you go to the restroom with a syringe.  She involved people before she did her due diligence and risked embarrassing you on a false accusation.  I wish your
mother would have told her that it was Kara who owed you an apology as she jumped to a very quick assumption.  Interventions are not something you jump into at a fast pace and this is an example to prove why.
I’m sorry I didn’t read the whole thing. Just curious about the name of the actual condition. You mention vertigo and tinnitus and now I’m wondering if this is what my dad has.
People don't have the right to know your personal medical issues, and the only ones here who are TA are the ones pushing you to share info you don't want to share.

NTA, 100%.  Don't apologize, maybe Kara will learn a valuable lesson about not sticking her nose in other people's business and taking people at their word when they say they have a minor medical issue to deal with.
She stormed out of the intervention she was hosting? NTA even if you were using drugs
NTA, either this is fake, or Kara has just never been around people who have even been around drugs. I would love to see what's going on in her brain, "of course, the heroin timer, everyone knows that people who do heroin set timers for it, and openly walk around with their heroin syringe, it just makes sense"
If they ever make the technology to look into other people's brains, I would love to see this world of organized drug use
NTA. Even if you did have a drug problem, she's still TA for the way she handled it.
NTA

I guarantee Kara is hiding some shit.

Projection is a bitch.
Damn, I thought I made a tonne of earwax.

Your cousin sounds like an overbearing busybody and deserves to be laughed at. Do you think she came from a place of (naive) caring or does she love herself some drama? Sounds to me like it’s the drama option. You mum needs to stop enabling your dramatic cousin.

You can’t like wait till you get home though? You take that whole syringe getup everywhere with you?
lmao how embarrassing for her. thats what she deserves. NTA! and dont apologize!
NTA! If she wants an apology offer her a good “I’m sorry you feel embarrassed- I was shocked you thought I was a drug addict and contacted all my friends and told them that I was and staged an intervention for me! It was a little ridiculous.” 

I’m thinking that *might* elicit a real apology from her for what she did. And if she says that you didn’t give her a real apology, tell her straight up that you’re the one who deserves one, she didn’t get accused of being a drug addict to all her friends!

But really you don’t owe her anything.
NTA. As a spoonie, I have to take pills. Especially at night I have 5 pills, and I take them all together.
I am very open about my situation because it impacts my life, and because I treat it as a headache.

I do understand your willingness to keep private, and your feelings are valid.

Someone tried to tell me MAYBE I am an addict, I literally laughed in their faces and walked away.

Who are YOU to tell ME how to deal with MY chronic illness? Do you think it's easy to have to use pills to function?

Idgaf about someone thinking I have an addiction - at my job, everyone knows about my situation - and if someone ever dared to gossip, I would happily take a drug test, throw at their face. To finally go to the police to report for spreading false and damaging information.

I would go NC with your cousin and whoever tries to take her side.
Now u can totally get away with slamming H
She should be the one with apologies lmao 🤣
NTA. She staged an intervention based on a bathroom trip. If anyone needs to apologize, it's Kara. She doesn't need to know your medical history. She's embarrassed because she was wrong and thought you were lying.
NTA, I'd have laughed in her face, too. She didn't deserve an explanation. Your medical history is that, yours.
"jonnys in the bathroom getting high of that ear crack again"
[removed]

NTA
Kara is TA for jumping to conclusions and assuming she has a right to know your personal information
Your mom is also TA for sharing your private medical information to someone who you purposely chose to not give that information to and technically you could give her a good scaring for that as sharing medical information is against hippa even if she’s not your medical provider. Obviously don’t actually do anything about it other than mention it but hopefully it scares her enough to stop sharing your personal medical information.
Lastly, they both owe you an apology. Kara for the stunt she pulled and for feeling so entitled to a life and info that is not hers. Your mom for, again, sharing your personal medical information against your wishes and without your consent.
*edit: spelling and grammar
NTA
I have IBS and I get tonsil stones. People need to mind their business.
They make a device called Wush. It's a portable earwax flusher.
[removed]
Nta she clearly hasn't been around addicts and she needs to mind her own business
NTA. Let what your mother said go through one ear and come out through the other.
Your medical business is none of anyone else's. Your cousin is an AH for assuming she was entitled to have you explain yourself to her.
NTA who the hell stages an intervention off a one off interaction - plus like who jumps to “addiction, drugs” when there’s like 100000 medical things that use syringes to medicate 😂 also she’s a family member and if she was genuinely concerned why not just ask you if you’re using drugs. This cannot be real
NTA
NTA, Imagine using the bathroom for longer than someone expects and then they stage a drug intervention. Ridiculous.
Mom needs to butt out. Snoop needed her embarrassment.


NTA 
NTA. She is the one who owes you a (HUGE) apology for being a nosy busybody, stalking your friends, and gossiping about you. I honestly have no words for that level of overstepping. As a person with a myriad of chronic illnesses, Kara’s behavior is absolutely infuriating. She outed your private medical condition, which is such a dick move.
NTA. She should mind her own beeswax as we used to say in the 80’/90’s.
[removed]
NTA

She should have tried talking to you before involving your friends. Sounded a bit like she wanted to be the centre of attention and have something to hold over you. 
Also, who listens to people in the toilet. What if you did do your business, I would hate knowing someone was on the other side listening.
NTA 

The only person who embarrassed Kara was Kara. Only an Olympic pole-vaulter is capable of leaping to such conclusions, and she has the gold medal.
NTA, you literally told her what was up just not what the medical thing was and she jumped to multiple wild conclusions. She sounds really nosy and like she was looking for an excuse to make you and/or your wife & parents look bad, and absolutely owes you an apology
NTA
NTA. Stage an intervention with your family about her gossiping. She’s 37 acting like a teenager.
Nta. She’s not entitled to your medical information. Laughing at her is a lot more kind than what some people would do. Hopefully she’s learned to gather some facts/evidence before she goes off trying to save someone again.
[removed]
That’s a new one, mainlining through the ear drum 👂 🥁….. 
WHAT A TIME TO BE ALIVE LMAO
 
Also NTA.
What should you apologize for exactly?

Kara saw you go into a bathroom ONCE with a syringe and decided to have an intervention for you -- I mean WTAF?

Kara is a busybody and has main character syndrome. 

NTA
Kara is a neb shit
NTA. She had the nerve to start spreading baseless rumours because you went to the bathroom for 20 minutes with a rubber syringe and didn’t flush? How exactly do you inject anything with a syringe made of rubber? This being out on social media could have cost your job. Never mind apologizing, you need to explain this to her, and take fact that had it been anyone they could have been sued for slander. She wasn’t just stupid, she was reckless. 

What I would do at future family gatherings when she’s there is to announce loudly “Hey everyone! Don’t be alarmed, I’m just going to put the solution in my ears. No need to check me for drugs, or stage an intervention if I’m in there for more than 20 minutes. If anyone wants, you can check the bottle or syringe to ensure I’m not hiding crack, meth, or anything else.”
this is fucking hilarious…. she thought you were shooting up with a syringe that didn’t have a needle???
You're almost 30 and she's almost 40. I'm sorry that you even have to interact with her.
[removed]
Hell no, NTA

Kara owes YOU an apology for meddling in your private life. She had absolutely no right and guess what? She looks like an idiot for jumping to conclusions and making herself look like an ass instead of the hero she was hoping for. You do not owe it to anyone to tell them private and personal details about your health. I'm still gobsmacked that she was there listening to you in the bathroom. The gall...
NTA. Kara needs to apologize to you, not the other way around. It was none of her business, she was being nosey and interfering and how she can be aggrieved when she crossed a line and then crossed it again, I cannot understand.
NTA you have NOTHING to apologize for! Your mom is wrong
Kara is the arse… she needs to stop snooping.  Does she realize she does this to the wrong person or involve the wrong person it could go wrong  and hurt someone?  or get her in trouble in someone way?

Op she needs to learn to stop and if she involved to ask questions first.
This just proved that Kara is, indeed, a gossip. 

Instead of asking your wife or parents if you do drugs, she assumed you did, decided your family were enablers, told your closest friends you were a drug addict, and then staged an intervention. 

When her race to assumptions proved false, she hit bad at YOU, whom she’s just spread false rumors about. 

You need to tell Kara that you didn’t trust her with your private medical information, because she’s not in your innermost circle, she’s not entitled to it, and she’s a gossip. Tell her that’s what all this was, gossiping false stories about you. Say that she needs to learn her lesson and stop talking about other people or no one will trust her. 

I mean, wouldn’t a timer have tipped her off that this was a medical condition? Addicts don’t need a timer to remind them to do drugs. 

NTA. I’m so glad these were your friends, who supported you, and that Kara’s vicious rumor didn’t interfere with a relationship or job.
NTA. She'd have copped an earful if I were there too. It's always the eavesdroppers that get 'offended' like this too. She deserves the embarrassment
NTA
NTA. You could tell both her and your mom that she gossips and you don't want everybody knowing your personal business. This brings to mind the old saying: To '*assume*' makes an ass out of u and me.
NTA

Kara pushing you the very first time was the first red flag

And what savior complex bs is this?  She absolutely deserves to be shamed
She wanted to know so badly that she orchestrated an intervention with your friends, also to try and also embarrass you.
NTA.

Your mom should apologize for revealing your medical information.

Your cousin should probably more than apologize given the consequences of people thinking you’re on drugs can have on your work, home and social life. And a side note, I find it strange that was the first thing she suspected, unless it’s something she’s seen a lot.
NTA, but Kara and your mother are.
I also suffer with excess earwax..this is hilarious.
It's strange that she thought a drug addict would need an alarm.  She's playing high and mighty and spreading mis-information about you being an addict .  It is alarming as gossip grows and spreads with even more lies.  The end result could have got back to your employer.  You don't apologise for her mistake
Super NTA . The audacity to hail herself a savior and get everyone else involved without any proof or actual concern for your health speaks a lot about her, she embarrassed herself by her foolish assumptions
Also, it was for 20 minutes without flushing (super weird she was listening for it but I guess not out of the ordinary for her). I don't know any drug addicts personally, but most are typically way better about hiding when they've used lol
If she was actually concerned about his sobriety, there are so many steps before outing him to his entire support network and demanding he go to rehab. She went straight to the most painful, confrontational option without even verifying that he was using drugs. 

She wasn’t trying to help anyone. She spotted an opportunity to feel superior and kick someone while they were down. She’s pissed because her plan to publicly humiliate an addict was foiled by ear wax.
If OP would have been using drugs, he would obviously not have gone to the bathroom with a syringe visible in his hands!
I’m guessing she has a major savior complex and likely pulls crap like this a lot but this time it but her in the ass.
"He had a syringe! There are clearly *zero* medical conditions that involve using a syringe on yourself, and of course *no one* would ever want to do their medical routines in privacy if it was truly innocent!"

"The only *possible* explanation is drugs! And *of course* everyone who told me I am being stupid is just an enabler!"
A strong argument for minding your own business. Or your own earwax, as in OP’s story.
That is horrible, your friend's behaviour was actually detrimental to your health.
Some people have so little excitement in their lives they’ll call you just to say the clouds in the sky don’t look right. My grandmother is exactly like that. It’s obnoxious. Everyone loves a little gossip, but fucks sake at least fact check it for me!
People are truly idiots. Insulin should always be the first guess because it’s most likely.
My mom sometimes just did it right there at the table. I assume most people think she wouldn’t be so bold to shoot up drugs at the table and no one ever mentioned it. Otherwise she would announce to everyone she was going to the bathroom to shoot up lol. She has one of those pens now so it’s even easier to do in a couple seconds at the table.
Please tell me your other friends chewed her out
I don’t think they care if you’re a drug addict or not, but they definitely hate that you ruined their moment to be your savior (even though insulin is your savior).
Wild, coz as someone who's both familiar with diabetes and is a recovered junkie, i can say that the places those needles are going are VASTLY different.

No one shoots to drugs in their hips, lol
I also take shots. I always have syringes on me. People are just so ready to assume the worst.
This was my exact thought. Kara learned this lesson gently instead of being fired for spying on a diabetic in the bathroom at her job. What drug addict sets an alarm to take drugs during a family function? Kara is an idiot.
I think you can relate to this
https://youtu.be/Es2f5MsEWmg?si=GhOkagLLbJq_GLyA
I... don't know any drug addicts that have it on a daily timer lmfao.

They tend to just follow their hearts on that particular issue
I had a colleague I had worked together with in a really small team for a long time. We were basically together every work day. At one point I suspected he might’ve been either sick or in treatment for something - he had to visit the hospital in a different city several times a year (well known to be more academic and research oriented and more complex stuff gets investigated there), he had alarms and went to bathroom at certain times. I’m like… 99% convinced he was either injecting something there for some medical reason. 

I never asked and he never mentioned. It’s not up to me to ask someone if they don’t want to share. And for Kara to base it all on one instance of seeing a syringe? Insane. Maybe OP could’ve been diagnosed with diabetes? Those people go through A LOT of syringes and that can make people really suspicious too. 
An intervention is not about accusing someone of using drugs and them saying no I’m not. It’s about friends and family telling a loved one how they’ve seen something causing them to self destruct with loss of their job, money and health and a destruction of their relationships e.g. missing obligations, getting into arguments, becoming violent, etc. and then addressing the cause. None of this was happening. OP’s cousin should have accepted his explanation at face value and kept her concerns to herself unless such issues started popping up. NTA
I think Mom needs to apologize, too, for telling the cousin.
100%. My aunt was an alcoholic for years but everyone just put up with it. That was until her adult daughter’s husband was dying a cancer. She kept inserting herself in ways that wasn’t helpful and her daughter made a fair boundary and told her to stop overstepping and all she wanted was for her to be available for help when asked, not overly insert herself into situations when it just made them worse. Instead of taking a step back, respecting her daughter, and being a help she decided to start calling all family members she could get ahold of while drunk AF and telling them my cousin was stealing her husbands pain meds and had become a pill addict and she was worried about her daughters addiction as well as the pain her SIL was experiencing due to her daughters addiction. Our family who was well educated on drunken aunts issues basically told her to kick rocks. So when that didn’t work she started calling her daughters friends a few hours later, like midnight at this point, or later, waking them up absolutely melting down at this point trying to convince them she’s an addict and needs help. Her friends who were called were also aware of aunts issues and, probably more nicely, told her to kick rocks. She really didn’t stop and it was a whole thing for a few weeks before my mom finally had enough and called her husband (who didn’t even know this was happening) and told him in no uncertain terms his wife was about to lose her entire family and social network unless he could get her to stop. He did. And no one, 10ish years later, has anything to do with her unless absolutely necessary. She’s been sober for about 6 years but from what I understand despite being apart of AA has made zero amends.
What if somebody shared this information with your employer? 

Gossips are devastating in their own way with their weapons being rumours.
Your mother also owes you an apology. Obviously you didn't want her to know about your medical condition, but your mum felt it was ok to tell her.
and OP's mom owes him an apology for telling his PRIVATE medical information to that nosy assuming AH Kara 

NTA OP
Kara owes OP an apology & so does OP's mom, right? 

>My mom called me yesterday and told me she had talked to Kara about the whole thing and explained. 

unless I'm understanding this part incorrectly, OP's mom told Kara about OP's medical condition despite OP not wanting that and in fact refusing to share it with Kara the day before!
This reminds me of Loudermilk, with the over aggressive sponsor who actually turns the clean guy (who did a meeting on behalf of his jerk ass boss) into an actual addict.
Op should remind mom that 'keeping the peace' only serves the bullies.
What she did is literally defamation. OP should have a lawyer send her a desist letter and warn that further legal action can be taken if she doesn't back off
This happened on the show Loudermilk, it was one of the most uncomfortable things I've seen in a show haha.  
Cousin seems like a busy body tbh
I'm so confused that the person that is mad at OP for not disclosing private medical information so she wouldn't assume they were a drug addict, and told all their friends that they were a drug addict doesn't see that they are in the wrong.
Like, aren’t interventions meant to show how you’ve affected people close to you? It’s a way for people to say they care about you but your behavior due to addiction is having negative effects on your relationships. If this is the case with OP’s ear medication then I can’t imagine there’s been any negative effects on relationships. 

Cousin is way out of line here. NTA
Call her out on SM and identify her for what she is -- a nosy busybody who wants to spread false rumors.  Also state that since she cannot keep her big mouth shut, you will go NC and ignore her at any family function.
You can tell it's all about her and not care for the OP because she should have been relieved and thrilled that it was a diagnosed medical condition with a prescription, not a drug addiction. The fact that she was mad about being embarrassed shows that she was doing this for herself, to *look* like a supportive friend - rather than actually being one, like the rest of OP's friends. 

This is called a narcissistic injury, and I guarantee Kara is a narcissist. The nosiness, gossiping, making the revelation that it's not true all about her humiliation and her failed intervention rather than being elated about OP's health, playing the victim, blaming OP (DARVO), getting flying monkeys involved about apologizing (why would OP need to apologize?!) - are all textbook narcissism.
“Dear Kara:  I apologize for exposing you as an ignorant dufus. Please read this Reddit post for further information “
this exactly
she's probably a bit upset that she didn't get the big 'high' of 'helping a relative with addiction'.
No, I disagree.  OP should absolutely apologize.  Then update Kara every single time he has a bowel movement or has to pee or throws up or any other act other people find gross.  He's just preventing her from being unnecessarily concerned again!
I see what you did there.
It was the build up for me. She's went from asking him,  straight to intervention. She heard only what she wanted to glean from the situation.
OP should keep his ear to the ground regarding Kara's next move
I’d have given her an earful to be slandering me like that
This is kind of tone deaf tbh.
ear-itated
Yep, Kara should be given a thick ear for that behaviour
If only Kara had just lent an ear instead of jumping straight into accusations.
Yeah, OP needs to demand an apology from Kara. She slandered/defamed him to his friends!
Not to mention her running off to tattle to his mother about what happened. Who does that?  I see so many posts and comments about grown adults tattling on people to their parents.  It’s fucking weird.
this is what makes me think NTA. cousin was in it for selfish reasons.
She apparently needs her nose rubbed in it a bit more so she learns
Lol I do think that's funny. Don't think she heard my alarm though, just saw me with the syringe.
I've heard some people do grow out of it!
That's what I'm wondering too. Just taking the cousin's word for it that an intervention is needed without even trying to ask OP about it directly first is just as strange as the cousin's behavior.
Right? I’d be pissed if my friends took the word of one of my random cousins without ever talking to me or having their own preexisting concerns.
Yeah, I would start questioning why the friends were so quick to believe the cousin's crazy shit about him.
It wasn’t even unexplained either. OP literally said it was a minor medical procedure. Its like getting pissed at a diabetic for wanting to go to their room for the shot instead of at the dinner table where everyone is looking at them. It even worse when u take into account that their particular medical condition practically necessitates them doing it in a particular place.
SHE STOOD OUTSIDE THE BATHROOM DOOR, and monitored you. Demanded to know why you didn't flush. CREEPY!

She crawled your social media, and contacted your friends to stage an intervention. Skipped talking to other family members, deciding they're enabling you.  You were forced to reveal your medical condition to your friends.  

Didn't get the reaction she wanted, so she called your mom to TATTLE on you, and demand info AND an aplology?!?

I'd block her everywhere, AND send a cease and desist letter.  What if you were doing something even more private, like changing a incontinence brief?   

You don't want to give her the chance to escalate again. What if it got back to your employer, or otherwise excluded you from something you do as a hobby (i.e. Scout Leader, etc.) which requires sobriety?

She f'ed around. She found out.

No apology for her!
NTA
She'll set up another intervention to get him to stop.
Indeed, the story is fabricated.
I do both ears at once every other day. My disorganized ass would not be able to keep up with which ear I had done the day before if I switched off. lol
She wanted a scenario where she was the hero so she built one. The need for assertions to be built on fact is not a universal experience, unfortunately.
OP should set up an intervention with ALL the family about the cousins addiction to other peoples business
It hits all the bingos for a fake story.  Reaching out to people through *his* social media for a intervention though? Like how would that conversation even go?  It's not believable that even one came, let alone all of them.
Maybe SHE needs the intervention? J/S
OP should set up an intervention about the cousins addiction to other peoples business
Yes my bad! Sorry for formatting I had to put it through a character counter website and it got rid of all the line breaks.
I actually have a skin condition that causes part of the buildup and dermatitis that can get infected. this plus wet wax. I'm not sure that this is what your dad has as iirc lots and lots of different things can cause vertigo and tinnitus but I hope you find answers 🫂
Lol AFAIK she has not been around that stuff. My alarm doesn't make noise, just buzzes in my pocket so I don't think she saw it. Bathroom is on the way to the kitchen, so she was probably just doing dishes or grabbing a drink
Yeah if you're sneaking off at a family get together to use in a bathroom, that toilets getting flushed, the hands are getting washed lol.
Not just listening for it, standing outside the bathroom continuously for 20 minutes, that is dedication to weirdness
If anything, an addict would make it blatantly, uncomfortably, painfully obvious that they were going to the toilet just to make it clear that they definitely weren’t gonna get on in there. Think:

“YEP, OFF TO GO AND DROP A DEUCE. SEE YOU ALL WHEN I’M DONE CLEARING MY BOWEL.”
This is so true it’s ridiculous, the way she went about it would further ruin OP’s life if she actually was an addict. There’s no actual concern for OP involved here.

It’s kind of funny how with stigma people will ruin drug users lives by shaming them and removing them from their job etc, and then they will turn around and say it was the drugs fault.

Drug addiction is bad no question, but what’s not talked about is that there’s lots of addicts that are functional but then their lives become destroyed from stigma. That is just further adding of fuel to the fire of mental health problems they already have going on.
The syringes used for ear flushing are also a lot larger than drug needles and they have a huge tip. It’s pretty comical to imagine someone thinking those are for drugs. 

I use one of the bulb ones to flush my ears and that’s even more hilarious to think of being mistaken for drug use.
Newspaper under their arm about to head in for a massive shit - “officers, this person right here!”
Mind their own bee's wax.
It was not a friend. It was a family member.
The clouds prob don't look right cuz they're so high.
The person in question has always held a grudge against me, and was eager to catch me in the act of doing something wrong. It’s petty family bullshit. I am estranged from most of my family for a reason.
Drugs are a lot more obvious though. Observation bias: you never see insulin needles scattered in public parks.
I grew up watching my grandfather test & inject insulin right at the breakfast table. It was convenient because the insulin was in the fridge.
They were not friends. They were all family members (it was my parents’ anniversary). No one ever mentioned it again, and it was swiftly forgotten by everyone (except me). 

There’s a reason why I am estranged from most of my family.
That's hilarious.
That was fucking hilarious!  Thanks for that
Not only the timer, but that show no signs of being high, coming down or any change in their personality. 

Kara is a wing nut without a clue.
Yep when you are an active addict you don’t need no mf timer!
You can’t spell “coked up” without OCD.
True lol
Let me set a timer so I don't forget about my daily heroin.
Yeah, this is the part that is mental to me. A timer is \*clearly\* for something medical, to remind you that you have to do it. That is not something addicts really need.
Exactly!  I am not well versed in medical stuff, but the only drugs that are on a timer like that are HIV drugs.  I only know this because of a musical I watched in highschool (don't remember which one).  I would have assumed HIV.


Edit to add:
It was the musical Rent and it was 1998, so been a bit.
Well when I was a kid I had an afterschool babysitter who was trying to quit smoking so she had an alarm that went off at increasingly longer intervals to let her know when she could have a smoke. Whenever the time was near we had to turn down the tv and stay quiet so she could listen for her timer and light up as soon as it went off. 

Not sure she would meet childcare standards in this day and age but it was a different time lol
They also dont carry their peraphernalia visibly around.
A drug addict with extreme OCD. 😂


That could be a pitch for a "quirky detective" series.
That makes it so much funnier, like did OPs cousin really think that he had an alarm on his phone to remind him “oops look at the time I have to go to the bathroom to shoot up” lmao
Really? Are you saying they don't write it on their planners and set an alarm? What disorganized addicts!
Always follow your heart.
ThIS!!! As a past heroin addict. I can confirm!!
You must've never worked at a car dealership before. If my GM wasn't doing coke at regular intervals he was impossible to deal with.
Listen to your heart, when it’s calling for you
“Sorry, guys, it’s been four hours and I gotta hit the pipe again. Doctor’s orders.”
Jeez, I didn’t even catch the timer part. That would be something for an addict to be so punctual. 🤣
Apologies family, i must take a bathroom break, my cocaine alarm has sounded!
Haha, totally, a timer/schedule for addiction  would be ridiculous! Completely laughable.

Oh shit, it’s almost 4:20, gotta go…
I think OP means more like an ear irrigator, like for babies, they’re rubber. Not like a needle.
In this case it’s probably a rubber bulb syringe, like you find in baby medical care sections of the store. They’re often used for ear irrigation because the stream of water isn’t generally forceful enough to damage the delicate skin of the ear canal and drum. 
And for telling OP he owes his busybody cousin an apology.
Yeah, what mom SHOULD have done is chew a chunk of Kara's butt off for being a busy body creep, eavesdropping on OP in the bathroom and then everything after too.
it's because to make amends, she'd have to take a long, hard look at herself, and more importantly, admit she was wrong. 

she probably lacks the ability to do that.
Damn.
My mother was like this for over 20 years, we had no contact but recently wanted to make amends, she doesn't remember 50% of the shit she did, which was half the problem how do you talk through something the other person doesn't remember? She has apologised repeatedly and takes it on the chin when we tell her of things she did. Really shit things.
It wouldn’t be a bad idea for Kara to receive a sternly worded cease and desist letter on very intimidating legal stationary. She needs to stfu before she causes OP serious problems.
Kara needs an intervention for her gossiping "problem"
I don't think the mom does. Kara thought he was lying, so she went to his mom. After hearing that whole story, OP's mother probably figured it would be a lot easier to say, "No, Kara, OP has a medical condition with his ears. He has since he was a little boy."  Otherwise, Kara is going to walk around talking to more people about whether or not OP does drugs.
My rhoughts exactly.

If Kara had any type of condition that required regular medical intervention would OPs mom tell her details and make her apologize for not sharing private medical info?

Highly doubt it.

Just because mom doesnt think his issue is worth keeping it a secret doesnt mean she gets to go out of bounds.

Both need to go sit down and get better hobbies.
Oh definitely, Kara was going to be a hero. In her mind she was going to confront OP and he would break down, thanking her for being the only one that cared and that she saved him. Everyone was going to say how kind, wise and wonderful Kara was. 

Then OP ruined it all by not being a drug addict and just having a medical condition. TBH OP is the selfish one for taking away Kara’s big moment /s
100% agree
I heard that
I wonder whether this is some personality traits of hers.

We already know she is a gossip but man is she quick to jump to conclusions going straight to OP needs am intervention. Saviour complex maybe, but more likely just a pain in TA.
Not to mention earitating.
Hear ye hear ye, Kara’s a nosy shrew
Someone should grab Kara by the ear and tell her that what she did was wrong.
And NC her after the apology.  Sadly though, I bet she has never apologized to anyone once in her entire life.
What's hilarious, is that an ADDICTION is one of the only times it WOULD be appropriate to tattle to somebody's mommy... and the cousin ACTIVELY chose to only tattle about getting embarrassed. 

Mom needs to be cut off for a few days until she realizes that SHE is also acting inappropriately. (I'm not talking extreme, obviously. I hate that Reddit thing where everything is supposed to be enough for NC)
Even if he was shooting up heroin or doing coke, Kara would still be the AH. An intervention happens with people who are close to the person and have a legitimate concern about their wellbeing, not some random tool who thinks they’re going to be a savior. And if it was a real intervention, Kara should have been kicked out of the room immediately because she doesn’t give a shit about OP
Oh... Still that's super weird of her. Like, you'd have to be the most open syringe using addict in the world to be like "pardon me, I have to use the facilities for to get my dinnertime fixins".
Plus I’m guessing it’s just a syringe and not a needle right? Maybe I’m just used to seeing syringes around my house since all baby/toddler meds are given that way but a syringe on its own doesn’t scream hard drugs to me.

Big ol’ leap on her part, she embarrassed herself.
OP if you ever see her again start asking invasive questions about her health
I had it as a child, it was painful and annoying to go in for ear cleanings. Somehow it stopped but I do have some buildup. I went for a hearing test about three years ago due to an injury and my hearing is within normal range.  

I haven’t needed to have cleanings in like 30 years so I guess I grew out of it. My dad always had problems and would require cleanings and had hearing problems. 

OMG your cousin… she got what she deserves, I feel that is something as private as incontinence and nobody questions a diabetic with syringes. She is terrible for wanting to pry so much into your personal life and health conditions. You could have lost friendships or relationships over this.
Idk. They’re literally using social media, they could have reached out to all of OP’s friends, and they could have said anything.

There’d be friends where if their family member said *”I’m really worried about X. At dinner, they went into the bathroom with a syringe and stayed in there for ages. They didn’t really seem themselves about the whole thing. You happy to come out to lunch so we can have a chat to them?”* I’d go. Better to turn up and be wrong than not turn up

If they were really suspicious it would have taken more than the truth for the whole situation to end up being hilarious and mortifying for cousin
I mean then again, one would expect family to know you best. If one of my friends family members came to me and told me they'd recently found out my friend had a drug problem and they wanted me to come out and support them getting help - while I'm generally against intervention tactics - I'd struggle to not believe it. We don't know if the friends understand how "random" the cousin is, nor do we know how she phrased it. Was it "I think he maybe kind of sort of has a drug problem potentially?" Or was it "I caught OP sneaking off to the bathroom with a syringe and he came out without it and acting off. Given the circumstances I'm worried he's become an addict though I'm not sure what to exactly. Regardless, I want to host an intervention and need help getting people together to show him he's cared about and give him reasons to stop his addiction. I'm worried if I try to reach out by myself though he won't be receptive. Can you help me get him and all his friends into one safe space to confront him on this? If we tiptoe around it I'm worried he'll get better at hiding it or cut us off entirely to avoid being caught again".


If someone came to me with such a serious accusation and phrased it like that, I'd think I missed the signs or my friend was hiding it well. Why would their family lie or spread negative rumors about someone they're meant to love? Especially when the lie involves them being so caring about the OP it'd be even harder to spot the lie because they just seem so *nice*. And mind you, I am FROM a family that loooooved to spread horrific rumors to get the upper hand. Your stomach would twist at the things I was "caught" (accused with literally no evidence beyond a misinterpreted Facebook post from someone I wasn't even actually friends with) doing to force me to attend a church school she wanted me to be in my junior year. 

But to anyone else looking in all you'd see is a concerned mother worried for her wayward daughter. Because why would a mother lie? Especially about something so heinous? 

I just say this to say if your friends family approaches you seriously concerned about your friend, I can imagine it would be far harder to ignore than if it was some random rumor through the grapevine. We are taught to trust or family, that family knows us best and will always be there for us. And most people don't have experience with family dynamics that don't reflect these values. It's hard to fathom family hurting you for their own gain for most as most people deep down can't imagine doing that themselves or having it done to them. I don't blame the friends for taking the account of the cousin so seriously, especially if the cousin phrased it more as a fact than a question.
I’m not saying OP needed to explain anything.  In my opinion, what one does in the bathroom is 100% nobody’s business.

I’m saying Miss Intervention didn’t get a detailed explanation, and immediately jumped to “OP is shooting up”, instead of minding her own business.  

She asked what he was doing with a syringe, and when OP rightly told her it was private, she made (erroneous) assumptions. 

I’d have laughed in her face too.
Totally psycho behavior.
OP should set up an intervention about the cousins addiction to other peoples business💀
I'm curious, can you not do it as part of your morning or night routine? Personally, I would hate to carry around a kit with me everywhere with a timer to remind me. That way no one else has to know other than your wife too.
Meh it depends on where, some people are actually this stupid. In countries like Sweden where I live there’s still a lot of people that think smoking weed is like injecting heroin because they are brainwashed, that ignorance and stigma could totally make these type of people do this without a second thought because they are so scared of drugs.
*"The toilet didn't flush..."* is crazy!
This is totally true. I’m not a user of any hard drugs or anything but if you consider nicotine addiction a thing, I’ve definitely suffered from that in the past. When I’d be with family I’d make sure everyone knew that I was going to use the bathroom so they wouldn’t come looking and catch me. I’d go as far as pulling my pants down and sitting on the toilet as if I were, just in case when someone came knocking they’d hear my pants come up and me flush…
This. As a recovered junkie, you hide your gear so well no one even knows, and do everything you can to make it SEEM like a regular bathroom trip. Which includes flushing and washing your hands. 

Hell, if I knew I needed an out in public, I'd put my rigs in a freaking tampon wrapper before hand, coz no one is gonna second guess that. 

Junkies are WAY better at hiding what they're doing.

And also, don't use the kind of large syringes for flushing out ears, they use the tiny insulin ones that have caps coz you know, there's actually a needle attached.
You don't fool us about your obvious meth enema!!
It's actually quite sweet that Kara has so little clue about real addiction and addict behaviour. Kind of reassuring that there are still people out there with so few problems they have to make some up based on shitty media representations of big ones.
...Maybe by someone who has no idea what a bong looks like? Or how it's used??
Yes this is the funniest part of the whole thing to me. Mistaking an irrigating syringe for an intravenous needle is actually hilarious. Not only is OP NTA, I’d never let Kara live that down. She seems like someone who needs a good ribbing now and then anyway - maybe it’ll take her down a peg.
Right??! Especially with the huge disk at the base that acts as a guard.
That makes it even worse.
I think your right. I saw one that looked like a bunny.
This reminds me of a time my mom pulled my brothers and I aside each one by one and asked who left suspicious looking things in their pockets that went through the wash. One of my brothers laughed and assembled the mechanical pencil that had come apart. They were all getting high but needles were not their vessel of choice lol
And like… OP wasn’t carrying a needle lmao how ignorant
I don’t think Ms. Kara has ever actually seen someone high. That’s a good point.

Not to mention OP has probably been to several family gatherings and dinners and has never been altered in any way. 

Being concerned is one thing, being completely ignorant is another.
That's the detail I can't get past. She had zero evidence beyond one "odd"--to her anyway--bathroom visit. How do you clock someone as an addict--AND get their friends on the same bus--with no indication whatsoever??

Edit: homophones are not my friend.
As a sober addict, the timer is all the time

Edit: Wow I didn’t expect all this positivity and kind replies. For reference, I’ll be 5 years sober in September but I know in my active addiction I didn’t need an alarm clock lol.
Sober alcoholic here. "Am I awake? Well, then, where's my drink?" Is basically how it went when I was drinking.
lol a drug addict who forgets to take his drugs… if only… it’s like crap I’m sober again when was my last hit shit I can now remember everything else but I forgot when I last got high. Damn my dealer is going to get mad if I forget to get my fix again.
The twitches are the timer.

(Sober now)
I know this is a bit controversial, but one of my friends formed an addiction a few years back. I was the first one to notice due to the horrid marks on his arms, so I offered to help administer them but only small doses and at certain times. A few months later I convinced him to go to rehab and he’s since been sober. 

As a phlebotomist, I just didn’t want him to get an infection or overdose, and also didn’t want him to isolate himself. So timers were indeed used in this odd scenario
To be fair, many people do disapprove of the doctor-prescribed use of prescription stimulants for neurodevelopmental Things Like ADHD Just as much as they disapprove of the ""recreational"" use of illegal stimulants by undiagnosed people, enough to Stage an "Intervention", and prescription stimulants Work best for their intended purpose when taken on a schedule, so Most people who use them DO have a Timer Alarm for their next Dose.
I set a timer to stop myself from using too soon. Lots of us use timers lol
Yeah, alarms are for those trying to (usually unsuccessfully) ween by an ever extending minimum time between uses
I haven't been an addict for 25 years, but my body was my timer when I was. It told me it was beginning to feel poorly, and so then it was time to not feel poorly anymore. If someone needs a timer for it, they're definitely not addicted to it!
Also can't spell it without "puke".

What were we talking about?
I'm literally OCD and coke was my favorite addiction. I was the most organized mf in the world.
Lots of people set a timer to remember to take medication on time. Adhd for obvious reasons, birth control pills. Sometimes the medicine must be taken on time,and sometimes the person needs the routine enforcement.
I think you mean Rent. 

But also a lot of meds have to be taken at a specific time. My birth control is ineffective if I take it 2 hours late, so I take it when the timer goes off. 

Also if he needed to take certain meds a bit after others, those need to be administered specifically too. Many Psych meds start to lose their effect at 24 hours and need to be re-upped.
I’m an insulin-dependent Type-2 diabetic who also takes an oral medication, and the only way this works well is to set timers to keep meals and medications on schedule to keep my blood glucose well-redulated
AZT BREAK!
Oh, there are others as well. But I agree they are all pharmaceutical,  not recreational.
4:20 is exempt because it's more of a holiday than a timer ♡

A daily holiday, but a celebration nonetheless
I was also picturing a much bigger syringe, like the sort used to give kittens liquids. Not an injecting syringe. Kara is very naive or ignorant.
Yes, and they're not only for babies.  I also have to use one from time to time to remove extra earwax - though not nearly as frequently as OP.  It's not an uncommon item really.
Another situation where the person who committed the offense demands that the other party apologize
We don't negotiate with terrorists, and we don't apologize to assholes. Or creeps.
I've had parts of my life where I drank too much and did humiliating things that are out of character. The worst part of the hangovers was trying to figure out if I did anything embarrassing. 

Imagine drinking hard for a decade and sobering up. The waves of things that would surface in your memory to make amends for.
I know someone like that. The closest thing I got to an apology after they caused a huge scene was "I'm sorry for my part in things" when the whole situation was a series of them causing drama and duress, and when my partner or I tried to deescalate things, them escalating the situation further to the point I threw them out of the house and cut contact with them. Since I won't message them, they started messaging my partner "so we can talk things out"; there is nothing to talk-out at this point because I cannot trust them and they've proven that they have zero self-awareness
I wholeheartedly agree with this. I wouldn't put it past her to keep running her ugly mouth
but Kara had already decided OP's parents were addiction enablers. 

do you think she'd suddenly listen if OP's mom just said the same thing OP said about it being a minor medical issue?
I think if she said your example, she’s fine. But if she specifically mentioned what the medical condition was? Then she owes the apology 
How could he do that to her, it's so selfish of OP to not have actually turned out to be a drug addict.
I get delusions too, but I keep them to myself. 

The number of times I've rewritten my past to create a better present for myself. It would work if it wasn't for that pesky cat waking me for first  breakfast.
Pardon?
Busybody. But really I only commented cuz I wanted in on the thread.

Waxing philosophical now😹
It’d only go in one ear and out the other
That’s a very good observation.
I use a syringe with a large dull "needle" in it to clean fountain pens and I left it out to dry in my dish drainer once. A friend with a history of family drug use asked me a nervous question about it, I explained (and demonstrated that the needle could not puncture skin without force/injury) and that was that
> nobody questions a diabetic with syringes.

You’d be surprised by the amount of people who don’t know what type 1 diabetes is. My best friend has T1D and has had strangers say things like “are you really shooting up at the table?”
Seriously, if she were real, she would be a total lunatic.
Hahahahah!!!!
I don't think it's sweet, I think it's a dangerous level of ignorance because she obviously feels confident with assessing someone with a drug addiction and then telling everyone in their life that they're an addict. Ignorant, self-righteous fool.
Nor does she seem to have ever had a vaccine if she can't tell the difference between the types of syringe s
Ok. But thats gold. 

Now I'm picturing someone actually jamming one of those bulbs, full of smoke, straight up their nose. 

Getting caught by cousin here. 

And cousin screaming "he's injecting that devil's lettuce straight into his brain!!!"

(Maybe even a "won't somebody think of the children!?!?!")
Of course not! You can't shoot up weed through a needle 😂

(a joke on the mentality his cousin must have)
You'd be surprised. I have an ink injection needle for my refillable fountain pens. My roommate saw it once and I had to literally demonstrate how it was used for pens before he would believe me. I can't even imagine the pain of trying to use an ink pen for IV drugs.
Syringe, needle, same thing /s
I can confirm that! Clean 5 years!
Same here homie👍, agreed & it definitely didn’t take me 20 mins in the bathroom causing suspicion . This was all sorts of non-red flags.
That cut deep. Keep rocking it, friend.
Dude I feel this in my soul. Well done on the (painful but) continuing sobriety!
Congratulations, me too.
Congratulations on being sober!
Props to you. Every missed exit off of Sober Highway is a success.
Congratulations. I sincerely wish that timer will become less loud every day.
Proud of you.
No alarm, it's just go time.
Keep fighting. You’ve got this.
Congratulations my friend
That is awesome!  Keep it up.  Five years is worth being proud of.  FWIW I know I’m just some internet stranger but I’m proud of you.
Recovering alcoholic. My timer was pretty much beeping the entire time I was awake! Congrats on 5 years.
Mine was pills, Dr prescribed to start with, now if I smell anything with ibuprofen I vomit
Congratulations dude! 👑
Congrats on almost 5 years friend. My dad says you’re in recovery for the rest of your life, but it gets a little easier. I’m proud of you!
Time is never wasted when you're wasted all the time!
That is so true re: the timer. Addiction doesn't run on a set schedule. Congratulations on your recovery! It's a tough road to walk.
Congrats on your sobriety. This intense stranger is very proud of you!! All the best!
Keep it up brother.
Congratulations!!! My youngest has been about 3.5yrs. I hope nothing but the best!!!
You're the man Stanford..
I am so very proud of and for you!!
congrats on being sober <3
Congratulations!! Great job out of you!!!
Congratulations on being sober!
Congratulations and I applaud you!🙏🏽🎉
So proud of you!! Congratulations :)
Even in dreams. For me, in my dreams I'm worrying about obtaining alcohol.
Congratulations on your sobriety 🙌
I was on a timer - 6pm on the dot. But there’s no f-ing way I needed an alarm to remember. 6pm and 10pm (when the shop closes/stops serving alcohol) were branded in my brain.

It’s been over a year and still I catch myself glancing at the clock and getting a dread feeling if it’s like 9.55pm.

Congrats on sobriety!
That was me on coke. It was ridiculous
Congratulations on being sober! Rock on.
As an aside, this is what ADHD people feel like when we're told we're drug seeking/essentially taking speed.

We can literally forget to take it and suffer the consequences. For me, that is at least 2x per week, even with systems built in to prevent that.

But yeah, we're only in it for the drugs.
If I have to ask if I’ve had a hit, then I’ve had the hit. 😎
I also like how she stormed out of an intervention she organized for someone she thought was a full blown heroin addict. Junkies aren’t exactly known for their calm rational responses to being called out.
Doesn't everyone's withdrawal alarm go off?!
Interestingly enough i knew an addict with adhd (yes he was doing it as a sub for adderall) who had to set a timer sometimes, or else he'd just get really cranky and realize after he said something mean
congrats!
And those people are still massively in the wrong for getting up in arms about the treatment of a medical issue. Who TF are they to question medical requirements?
I don’t know…somebody’s cousin stuck a syringe in their ear or something…?
BP pills and so I take my allergy meds at the same time.
I had a gastric bypass a year ago and I basically live my life on timers now.
I need a timer to take any medication because I forget the time.
6 am, noon, 4 and 8. Yup, yup, yup, even with the damn timers and nice med organizer I still miss doses
Some antibiotics.
My mother in law used to be on meds that had to be taken a certain amount of time after you ate. Take it early it was ineffective. So she had a countdown timer on her phone. 
I used to do that for BC too, but OP is male, so I assumed that he was likely not taking that!  Hence my comment.
My Dad is too. He's 83 & takes a tackle box of pills 3x a day. His pill reminder notification tone is Matthew McConaughey's "Alright, Alright, Alright". Still cracks me up every time I hear it.
You?
Besides the bulb irrigator, there's also a special syringe with a nozzle that points to the side. It's much easier to rinse out the adult-sized ear canal.

Source: one of my kids also has extra earwax. You can buy a kit from Amazon with the eardrops and syringe with bent nozzle.
Well, that's how the story goes. lol After being humiliated and kicked out of OP's friend's house, Kara had to call OP's mom to get him in trouble. So, the reason for the intervention had to come out. We don't know exactly what OP's mom said. Hopefully, she told Kara to get a hobby.
This. Kara had already made such a ridiculous deal out of it, telling her that OP has a condition requires he take a daily medication that involves using an applicator is pretty much the only thing that would get her to knock it off. 

Telling her again that it’s a minor thing and not her business would have probably just set her off about his “addiction” even more. She’d be convinced nobody was taking it seriously and she might do something worse like contact his employer or start making public social media posts.
The weird thing is the cousin's behavior (crap stirrer really) mimics that of an addict. She got to organize a bunch of people, be the keeper of inside information until she dramatically revealed it, damn the temporary high from that must have been amazing. She'll need to line up the next event soon though. It's also self destructive because eventually people get sick of it. I've seen people like this in action.
I mean, some people do think drug addiction is a medical issue. 
Mind your bee's wax!
Aw, well done!
That’s wild to me! Especially because insulin goes into the subcutaneous not your veins.  No one is shooting heroin into their bellies.
That person most likely meant it in a "bless your sweet little heart" way, which is to say "she's a dumbass".
Are you saying this is *not* how to do a marijuana?
It’ll be 5 years in September for me. ODAT
This made me snort laugh! As a former addict not using drugs for over 20 years can verify - Never needed a timer to remind my self it was time for a boost! Hahaha!
Not "clean" 5 years. You're 5 years without using xyz drugs, nothing to do with cleanliness. I'm a drug user, but I'm not "dirty" as a result.

Congrats on dealing with your usage in a way that makes you happy, but don't ever go feeling that you were dirty before...
And u never forget to flush cause of the nosey Kara’s 😂
If you wear rose colored glasses, all the normal white flags are, like, rose colored and shit.
It’s a tough journey, but you’ve got this. Proud of you!
Oh, absolutely. 

"Lost my wallet, fuck!" *Frantically searching.*

"There's none left? No, don't tell me..." *Opening all the cabinets and freezers and closets, under beds*


I am so, so blessed not to have those problems in my life anymore.
Omg I’ve been sober for years and although my thing wasn’t alcohol, I’ll STILL occasionally have dreams where I’ve lost my pills or can’t get to them or my dealers are out etc. it used to happen nearly every night even a long while after I’d gotten clean. Terrible terrible dreams/ nightmares for sure!!
Thank you. 🖤
🫠 All day. Every day.

Addiction can suck my nuts, though. Now I'm addicted to fuckin' DIY projects and crafting, and bettering myself and feeding my brain the *good* stuff, instead of ethanol.

I've done enough damage to myself and those around me - enough for a lifetime.

Coke had its claws in me for a few years. Miami was not a good place for me to live. I'm up in the Appalachian mountains now, so that's helped. This life is better than vomiting blood, seizures, wrecked cars, and broken relationships and hearts.
My doctor bumped my ritalin up by half. Which means I now need to split a pill. Do you want to guess how I how often I’m getting that extra half a dose? Yeah. On the plus side, if the pharmacy is ever out of stock, I’ll be able to survive on my untaken halves.
I’ve been on medication for my ADD for 30 years and I still forget to take that shit fairly regularly. The struggle is real.
Thank you for reminding me to take mine! My routine is out of whack today and I forgot. Again.
As someone with ADHD who used to be on meds as a kid, I hated them.  They made me feel like a robot, and the hunger suppression made me be very snappy with people.  

I never took them if I could get away with it.  And now that I'm not required to take them I don't.
AMEN. The look on people’s faces when you tell them you take meds for ADD. And in my case, how often they then say “but… but… you’re not… skinny?”
That reminds me, I don't remember if I took my medication today. Well, we'll find out if it is 10 PM and I am still at work finishing up my notes.
My doctor’s office now sends them via electronic script, but for years I had to call to request it every month, and then drive out to pick up the paper script (20 minutes each way) every month and take it into the pharmacy. I could only pick it up on Saturday mornings bc of my job. 

It may not sound that bad, but for someone with ADHD, it was an insane amount of hoops to jump through. 

I’m so thankful that they can send it electronically now. 😭
I feel so bad for the kids who were just normal rambunctious kids and were put on Adderrall for no reason other than to short circuit them for school. My cousin was one of these unlucky kids. It was later determined that he was not ADHD but by then he had been on the stuff since kindergarten and was addicted. When they suddenly took him off he turned to drugs cause he couldn’t cope with the emotions. At least that is what we were all told by his mother.
🥹🥹🥹
Me. You?
Nope, the mother could have just told Kara to mind her own business and stop interfering.
Sorry?... Didn't quite hear that.. Could you repeat?
Find my knee sacks…?
Thank you! I guess that I never really thought about it in that way! But you're right. It's a very negative language to describe people who are actively using vs people who aren't. I always assumed that it had to do with the ability to have clean vs dirty uas! Lol! Then again, there are a whole group of people who don't consider me as "clean" because I'm prescribed and enrolled in a methadone program. It's very different. I'm not actively participating in addictive behaviors, I can hold a job, my relationship with my family is repaired. I even actually do need a timer when I have take home bottles because I will forget to take them and wonder why I'm starting to not feel that great come late afternoon. Lol. While I am physically dependent on methadone, it's absolutely nothing like being addicted to heroin or fentanyl.
Amen to that, addiction can sit on it and spin!  Congrats on finding better brain food!  Boredom has gotten me in trouble more than once but it's one day at a time.  

Also, no addict would walk to the bathroom with a rig visible in hand at a family function!
Just watch out for the meth.
Hey, if you quit before you put a man made hole through your septum with it, I salute you 🫡
Fortunately, my doc suggested early on that I could skip days on weekends if it worked for me so I've had some backup when the pharmacy was out of stock for five weeks. I was down to about 5 when they finally restocked
More than once I took my 30mg morning dose as my 10mg afternoon dose because they look exactly the same. Those days were not fun.

I now insist my pharmacy give it all to me in 10mg tabs so I don't repeat that.
Do you need to take it at two different times? When I tell my history of trying adhd meds and I mention ritalin, I always say "I tried Ritalin, but the effect wore out too early. So I needed to take it at three different times. And I can't. Because I have ADHD." I've got no advice there but maybe try Vyvanse that lasts longer that I take, it's been a game changer for me

If it's dividing the pill, I suggest a pill box and a pill divider. I prep mine every Sunday so I just need to take it as if I'm taking a full pill.
Split all tablets in half and just take 3 halves each time
Yeah, I have a short acting booster med to take in the afternoon. That's gets forgotten a lot. When I refill my prescription, I throw whatever extras were leftover into a separate emergency bottle in case the pharmacy is out at some time. What's weird is I can remember to refill my med, and do the whole maintain-an-emergency-stash thing, but can't remember to take the damn drug every day. 🙃  ADHD is so strange.
I feel this on all of the levels. I’m currently broken unemployed, waiting on my Adderall.
The only way you manage this is with a pill minder.

Which works to know whether I remembered *today*.

But I also have to remember to fill it. 😭
I take 3 of the smallest dose of my med to avoid the splitting needed for 1 1/2 pills of the next size dose.
I switched from extended adderall with an instant booster to Vyvanse with an instant adderall booster. When we were still adjusting doses I told my provider that it felt like the 5mg adderall wasn't quite enough for the booster, even though it worked just fine.

Now I get to stockpile 15 tabs of instant adderall every month, which is good- between shortages, draconian fill laws, and my provider forgetting to send my prescription in every month even though I remind him, I run out of Vyvanse every month and end up relying on the instants to keep up with my insane workload. 

I work in healthcare and absolutely cannot risk running out of medication, so I have to do shady shit. It's either that or my work, and therefore patients, suffer. It's fine, I totally don't feel like a lying criminal at all.
Weekly pill box and a pill splitter were life savers when I had to cut my sleep meds in half! And I only recently finished my years of stockpiled antidepressants, you'd think feeling like sad angry garbage would have clued me in sooner all those times I forgot to take them for weeks but alas
I feed the cats and take my meds. If I forget, my cats WILL remember they didn't have food yet and will meaow till they get their food and I get my meds.
Me as well. It’s miserable to forget. I told a judgmental pharmacist, if I was planning on selling my ADHD meds, I would have done it in my teens not as a grandma. I hate people sometimes.
This was what I felt taking methamphetamine. Now I have dexamfitamiene, and it works a lot better for me. If you ever think you're stuck in life and don't want those meds, you can try the other kind
I agree with you, medicating kids is messy. It's tough because I've met a lot of functioning addicts who probably have undiagnosed adhd, so it's still underdiagnosed, but also was way overdiagnosed in children in the 90s.
Mimiiiii!
MIND YOUR BEES WAX, ETHEL!
I said take your ex-lax
My husband was able to get sober with vivitrol. I don't know your needs or requirements (and don't judge either way), but if you hadn't heard of that particular one, it is something to research to see if it is right for you. 

It is one that I had read about in passing. His therapist in rehab hadn't even mentioned anything like it even though my husband was hardcore struggling with cravings. When he asked about it, they gave it to him with no problem. He was on the injection version for about 6 months before he no longer started having cravings towards time to have another dose. It was paired with talk therapy, which is ongoing. He has 17 months sober now.
Hell yeah - addiction is a powerful thing, but humans are fucking resilient rubber-band beauties. I can't believe some of us made it this far with how we treated our bodies/minds.

And yeah, I bet - H is a different beast altogether, and it can suck it, too!
Oh, for sure. I imagine that can get rough. 

I was more of a weekend warrior with the white. Everyone at the pool hall was on it, every day. It was nice, after a few drinks kicked in and I wanted to sharpen my game a bit, or for some confidence and interesting conversation. $40 for two dubs or a $50 bag extra per night, though... the extra money spent wasn't my favorite part. Maybe it'd last me til 7am if I just bumped a couple times an hour, and everyone else had their own. On top of $80 drink tabs/night, however. Ooof.

I'd almost forgotten about that part of my life years ago, heh. I think I blocked it out.

Alcohol, on the other hand... It's had some negative long-term effects for me. Which sucks.
I'm curious, if I may, why do you skip weekends?

**Edit:** I have ADHD myself, so I have insight into how ADHD affects you. I've gotten the answers about just taking it for focusing and the shortage, but I'd love to hear about if someone does it that doesn't skip for those reasons.
I did this once for a week with my anti-depressants. They switched me to a single pill v. 3 smaller pills. Triple dosing SSRIs is awful.
Not the person you’re responding to, and *med efficacy varies from person to person, but I was prescribed Vyvanse and the effects definitely lasted longer and were generally more effective than the short acting generic adderall I’m on now.

However, insurance can suck about covering the name brand and the generic is regularly out of stock/unavailable in my city, and those are considerations in choosing a treatment too. A lot of the delayed release generic ADHD meds are hit or miss to get filled right now. :/
ritalin is an immediate release which is why it is often recommended to take multiple doses in the day. (i used to do 20mg in the morning and 20mg in the early afternoon).

i’ve since switched to vyvanse which is slow release and my energy levels have been way more consistent. depending on how severely affected you are, slow release meds can be the better option.
This is a very good idea
Thankfully my pharmacists all know me, so I don’t have to deal with that crap.
I've heard about it and done some research on it. Im not sure if it's right for me, but methadone seems to be working and has for the past 5 years. I'm happy where I am at. I think everyone just needs to find what works for them.
Mine started as a weekend warrior thing, too. It got seriously out of hand. Daily use for over 3 years, i even was doing coke when i had covid 🤦‍♀️. Don't attempt the math.
I had a friend in the past who would stop there Adderall for a weekend every month to basically detox from it so she didn't develop a tolerance that lessened the effectiveness. After he Friday morning dose she didn't take anything till Monday morning. She was a RN so I assumed she knew what she was doing.
Not OP but since some people take it to focus at work/school, they often find they don't need it on the weekends when they're just relaxing. For the same reason kids wont take it over the summer when they're not in school. It helps with side effects and just overall making sure you're not over medicated if you don't need to be.
Non work/school days, when you don't need.the brain focus so acutely.

Breaks help mitigate and moderate some of the side effects.

Also, with the stupid ass shortage going on, stretching out your scrip is a necessity.  Because you can't call in a scrip before it's due, and they won't have stock possibly for weeks (it has been as long as six in our house, though it's gotten better recently),  having  your unmedicated days be spent on weekends where you can is helpful in the long run, because it means you still have a couple when you're waiting of there is like... A really critical stretch. (An exam or an important project for instance)

Doesn't work for everyone, but, it's helpful and  effective for a lot of folks.
i used to skip it during the weekend so i could drink without mixing lol. but i love being productive on the weekends (finishing chores, getting ahead on meal prepping, etc.). sometimes ill skip a day if i feel as if the medication is dulling my personality a little and i want a break from not being able to yap shamelessly.
Don't need to focus so much when not at work probably.
The answer to that is somewhat complicated, I suppose. 

I have absolutely crippling ADHD and didn't get diagnosed and start medication until I 48 years old, I had been self-medicating with high doses of caffeine since I was about 11 and developed a lifetime worth of coping mechanisms.

Doctor, from day one, suggested that I could try skipping day(s) to help reduce potential tolerance issues and so I gave it a try. I mostly do it when I'm at home on the weekends with nothing really planned. I'll often vape THC to help blunt the worst of the symptoms/dopamine issues (and just because I enjoy it as my intoxicant of choice, I barely drink alcohol anymore) and occasionally I'll supplement with some caffeine (I've gone from \~3 cases a week to \~2 cans a month).

I also got TMS (transcranial magnetic stimulation) to treat my depression, which did wonders for stabilizing my mood (quick, out of proportion irritation and aggression are my primary depressive symptoms and ADHD definitely didn't help there). TMS got me off Wellbutrin (though I was on a pretty low dose there).

And, honestly, I prefer to avoid medication if I have other options, generally speaking. I'll absolutely take them as directed (i'm one of those people who always finishes his antibiotic and sets alarms for pill reminders), but when given the choice/told something is "as needed", I've always tended to err on the side of not taking them (if I had kept all of my unused pain meds throughout the years, I could probably start a small drug cartel).

I also have a parental history of heart concerns (heart attacks took both of my birth parents pretty early in life) so stimulant meds are personally a little troubling from that perspective. My cardiac health is pretty great (I had a 12-lead ECG as part of a surgery prep a few years ago and was told as much), but, as above, I prefer to err on the side of potential harm reduction when I can.

Plus, I get to call my non-med days "feral days" and that's kinda fun
I’ve heard the theory that you should take a med break when you can to help with tolerance and such. 

It’s just not safe for me to do so. I was in several (like, 8) car accidents before I was diagnosed in my late 20s. Since I’ve been diagnosed and treated for the past ~20 years? Not a single fender bender. 

It’s safer for everyone when I take my meds.
Personally I prefer not to skip weekends with my med because I can’t manage all those not at work adult tasks as easily. It’s happened and it’s not the end of the world.

With my kid we’ll allow a skipped non-school day if there’s nothing else going on with the understanding that we’ll be dealing with a rabid weasel. This summer we have them on a half dose because a full dose plus teenage sleeping in would mean they are even more nocturnal. The level of rabid weasel is more manageable on a half dose.
I no longer skip days. Panic attacks and anxiety can be related to ADHD. Skipping doses increased these issues for me. I used to believe skipping doses was better. I talked with my doctor and she said I was doing more harm by not staying consistent. I’m a RN and believed the whole skipping medication thing to reduce side effects. Now that I don’t skip my ADHD meds, my panic/anxiety are also decreased while my ability to function is increased.
It is so awful. I accidentally did the same for 4 days and believed I had a brain tumor before I realized my mistake. The physical and cognitive impairment I experienced was terrible.
I'm privileged to live in Sweden, so those are not a problem for me. My heart goes out to those that need to decide on if they should go with what's best for them or what is possible to get. I take Vyvanse and it is Just right
I did concerta first, too long so couldn't sleep, Ritalin, too short so it didn't last long enough, vyvanse, just right. ADHD version of goldilocks. Best i have taken, I got my creativity back. I'm on a fairly high dosage and I still have a lot of issues, but it's the perfect middle ground.
I have to do vyvanse 30mg twice a day
It's a slippery slope if there ever was one. Ugh. 

I found a bunch of hand-blown pipes and bud and baggies the other day, hidden in my apartment. You can imagine i was kinda shell-shocked to see them again, while sober. Completely forgotten it existed... it just, popped up. A solid old weeknight stash, just floating around under my nose for the past 500+ days. I must have hidden it when I was first sobering up.

I was like, "....Welp. there's where that was." I cleaned the bowls out well with some isoproponal and dried them, and gave them to one of my friends. Those bois are too expensive to just toss, I think i spent like $120 on the pair, back in the day. She was like, "Really? Free? No..." 

Hey, if you can handle your life and enjoy a little bit of the sauce now and then, and still take care of your family/self without self-destructing... you deserve to get a lil' toasty now and then. I can't do that. But being aware of that fact has probably saved my life.
We've learned that nurses are not immune to disinformation.
I have never developed a tolerance or lowered effect of any of the ones I took. I was on the same for years and when we hit the right dosage I just stayed on it. I've never even encountered the concept of a detox and I move around in circles with many and follow research. Just because they're educated in medicine doesn't mean they are educated in all aspects of it. Our insight in medicine and disorders change constantly and one needs to keep up to date.
I guess if you only take it for focus, I can understand it. Everyone's experience is different. For me and those around me that wouldn't be an option. There are so many more aspects of ADHD that aren't just focusing. Since it's in part a problem with the uptake of dopamine, which the medication helps regulate, it would be counter productive if you stop that regulation.
>For the same reason kids wont take it over the summer when they're not in school

Years ago I spent a summer as a camp counselor for a group of 7 & 8 yo kids. There were several with ADHD whose parents didn't give them meds over the summer. While I can understand their reasoning, it was also unfair to send the kids for someone else to deal with all day, as they bounced around all over the place, way beyond typical energy and activity levels for the age group. It was my first and last summer in that job.
I have never encountered anyone just taking it to focus, so I was asking out of that perspective to get an insight. Since it's such a complicated disorder with in big part dopamine uptake issues, it just doesn't stop for a lot of us with it. My life would not function if I took breaks, but everyone is different.  

And I also don't live in the US. I am privileged enough to live in Sweden so the shortage is (so far) not an issue.
Before I got my medication I struggled with so many things. For example I was so physically stressed out I scratched my scalp enough to get wounds to try to soothe it. My leg always jumped up and down which made my knees hurt. It helps most people with so many more things than just focus. Which is why I was curious about it.
AITA for not being friendly with my partners daughters now that they've "warmed up" to me
I'm (42) dating Tim (59), a widower. He's in banking, I'm a bartender. I know what it looks like. His 2 daughters thought the same thing, but he's broke as a joke and I've got a trust fund, so actually no.  
  
He's broke because his late wife got cancer. 3 times. He ran up 6 credit cards, 2^(nd) mortgage on the house, cashed out his retirement, everything and anything to get her the treatment she needed and then to get treatment enough to see both daughters married.  
  
His daughters live 6hrs drive away.  
  
We drove to them for Xmas last year and the year before. They ignored me, dragged Tim away when he tried to include me and prevented their husbands from making even small talk with me by talking over me.  
  
Year 1 Tim chastised them, they apologized (to him, not me) They blamed the pain of seeing their Dad with a woman who wasn't their Mum.  
Year 2, they did it again.  
  
This year I told Tim not again.  
He could go, I would never ask him not to see his daughters for Xmas but I'll stay here.  
  
Tim didn't love the idea because me going with him means we can share the responsibility of driving when his back starts to bother him. (He hates to fly)  
His 2010 deathtrap is starting to go anyway, so I leased him a comfy luxury ride (my brother has a dealership)  
  
He called the girls, super excited that he'd be able to see them more often without having to worry about his back,, who then blew up and accused him of spending their Mothers money on a “bull\*\*\*\* house and car to impress some bimbo bartender and didn't offer them a dime for their weddings”  
  
In the ensuing argument it came out that they assumed there had been a life insurance policy, nor did they have any idea about the credit card debt or the 2^(nd) mortgage that the house was underwater on or that Tim was looking at foreclosure and bankruptcy until he moved in with me.  
  
They did not realize it was my house, that he pays no bills save the water bill (man takes excessive showers) and shared groceries.  
  
Now the girls want my number. They are sorry I “felt lonely” at Xmas.

They want to come visit and stay with us next year! Conveniently in summer, I live near a beach.  
  
I've told Tim absolutely not about giving out my number. I'm happy to be polite if they come to visit Tim but, we're not going to be friends. If they had talked to me for even 2 seconds they'd have understood. I am not shy about admitting the only thing I have ever contributed to my blessed financial state is “not developing a crippling coke addiction” like my cousin Danny did.

  
Tim thinks I'm being too unforgiving. They would have warmed up to me eventually but knowing how generous I am being with their Father has made them warm up quicker.  
  
I maintain I don't care about now or later, they had their chance to not be catty brats over incorrect assumptions that I was taking advantage of him.
Welcome to /r/AmITheAsshole. Please view our [voting guide here](https://www.reddit.com/r/AmItheAsshole/wiki/faq#wiki_what.2019s_with_these_acronyms.3F_what_do_they_mean.3F), and remember to use **only one** judgement in your comment.

OP has offered the following explanation for why they think they might be the asshole:

 > I am wondering if I am the asshole because I've never lost a parent the way Tim's daughters did with their Mum. My parents are alive, just kinda distant (emotionally and geographically)
I'm sure there is trauma there and maybe Tim's right, I am being too unforgiving in my stance.
I also don't know the girls except through Tim's stories of them. He is the better judge of their characters than me. Maybe I do judge them too harshly for the timing of this sudden overture of friendship.

Help keep the sub engaging!

#Don’t downvote assholes!

Do upvote interesting posts!

 [Click Here For Our Rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/AmItheAsshole/about/rules) and [Click Here For Our FAQ](https://www.reddit.com/r/AmItheAsshole/wiki/faq)

##Subreddit Announcements

Follow the link above to learn more

---

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose/?to=/r/AmItheAsshole) if you have any questions or concerns.*

*Contest mode is 1.5 hours long on this post.*
Info: did your partner ever do anything to correct these assumptions or was he keeping up the lie to save face?
With all due respect.....if he has too much pride to tell his daughters the truth about being broke..... where is that pride when it comes to living off of you. 🤷‍♀️
Info: did Tim ever correct their assumption? Im assuming that the ‘bimbo gold digger’ commentary has been floating around and he knew about it. If so, why were they never corrected ? Also how did they not know that he was flat broke especially when the mother was getting cancer treatments and after death - will, funeral, etc ? Seems like something that would have been shared …
NTA 

You don’t owe them a damn thing. That being said, they are his kids and you gotta consider that if you don’t extend an olive branch that means he will be pulled in the middle and eventually push will come to shove. Is that something you’re comfortable with?
Considering that the daughters knew nothing at all about their parents' financial state BEFORE you arrived, it's safe to assume that they did not regularly have conversations with their parents about planning for end of life, etc. 

It's hard to say who is the asshole without knowing if your partner ever corrected their assumptions that you were being supported by him. It COULD be concerning as an adult to see your parent making extravagant purchases for/with a partner. You say you know what the situation looks like to outsiders... so why would you not be understanding of them thinking it is what it looks like? 

So my question would be: 

Did your partner ever tell them that they have things backwards, and that he doesn't support you financially at all, and in fact you support him?
This is a pile of BS. This guy is happy to use you, and happy to have his daughters shitting on you until they started shitting on him, and ONLY THEN he disclosed that he's living on your dime. 


He's in for your money and support, and he raised his daughters to be the same. Drop all that baggage. 
Putting myself in the situation as his daughters. It would be hard for me to see my dad move on especially to someone young and different than my mom after a tough death. Even as adults these type of things bring out the worst in a person.

If he’s a decent guy and he says his daughters are decent people then perhaps chalk it up to a shitty trauma response and them thinking you were using their poor sad sap dad. 

Knowing that someone cared for my dad enough to help him through an emotional and financially difficult period would mean a lot to me. It’s possible they do appreciate you more now that they know you’re helping their dad rather than taking advantage. 

I think it’s in your best interest to accept the olive branch but hold back a bit for your own security. You may end up gaining some bonus fun cast of characters in your life.

Or they are douchey shit bags and you can tell Tim to keep his family separate.

NTA- but also sometimes being an asshole happens because life is hard and losing your mom sucks.
I think it's quite telling that they're upset their father (appeared to) spend money on a car that wasn't 15 years old so he could visit them more often/safely, and instead wanted that money spent on themselves.

Concerned they're warning up to the idea that they'll get your money.

NTA
Your man is a liability. Just what exactly are you getting here?  Dishonesty.  Lack of support- emotional or otherwise. And he brought these ill informed kids along for the kicks.  wtf?  ESH- because it’s not the kids. It’s the man.
NTA.

These are grown women, not angry children, and you owe them nothing-- certainly not the money and favors they very obviously want. 

But also, I'm extremely concerned that your husband never set them straight before. This man spent TWO YEARS watching his daughters treat his wife like a golddigger and never once told them off and told them the truth? You have bigger problems than horrible stepchildren
This all feels raw right now,  so if you want to be very cautious going forward that’s ok.  Good even.  NTA.  

But it sounds like Tim was the problem here.  His pride and keeping the debt quiet lead to his kids making wild theories .   

More than that,  if Tim had back problems and an old car,  why weren’t his girls traveling to see him over the last two years?  That makes it even more sus that they want to come see you now.

I’m not a fan of any of them.  But if you are with Tim,  the kids are part of the deal.  It would be rude if you shut them out like they shut you outx
AITA for thinking you should end this before it gets worse? 

1: You’re giving Tim way too much grace in all of this. He didn’t have to tell them about the money troubles during their special moments or while mom was alive, but he definitely should have told them after she passed for their own understanding and expectations regarding inheritance. 

2: He absolutely has allowed them to believe whatever they want about you while also bringing you around them and pretending to not see an issue. As a daughter of a deceased parent, as a former stepmom, and as a currently dating single mom, I cannot stress enough that he has known their true feelings all along. I’ve been on every side of this coin, and he’s playing everyone involved. 

2: Also, Tim is allowing you to be his meal ticket. You’re his meal ticket, OP. Maybe you’re okay with that, and, no judgment if you are, but don’t get it twisted. He’s only made them apologize to you because he literally can’t afford to lose you. 

Now you want to draw a line that’s going to put Tim right back in the middle between you and his children. Idgaf about Tim really because he’s reaping what he sowed, but I am definitely wondering if you realize the shitshow this is and will continue to be.

I think you deserve way better.
They aren’t being nice because you are helping their dad. They hope to get stuff from you.
NTA. They're not warming up because you were generous to their father, they're warming up because they think it entitles them to generosity from *you*. If they visit, tell them to rent an Airbnb, but do not house them because that door's closed and they did their best to nail it shut. 

I'd be civil but distant, which is far more than they were clearly intending on being to you. Your partner can deal because he could've done better about defending you.
INFO: You said that he paid for enough treatment to see them both get married (this reads that mom saw them get married). But then you said they are mad that you didn't give them a dime for their weddings. So... what's the timeline here? When did the wife pass away? When did they get married? When did you two start dating? When did you get married? The timeline is really important especially since your narrative indicates you may have been dating while the wife was alive.
NTA - they need to act like adults and apologize to you.  I give you a lot of credit for being as civil as you are.  You're not making him choose, just making it clear that you're not going to be friends with his daughters any time soon.  I don't even believe they told him the truth when they apologized.  I have a suspicion they told him that to get access to the beach and maybe deals on your brother's cars.
Why are you with this man? Truly. I’m trying to understand what value he adds to your life:
Dump Tim. Like why are you dating someone almost 20 years older than you who has nothing. Hobosexuals aren't better than cocaine for bad habits to develop. 


>Tim didn't love the idea because me going with him means we can share the responsibility of driving when his back starts to bother him. (He hates to fly)
His 2010 deathtrap is starting to go anyway, so I leased him a comfy luxury ride (my brother has a dealership)


You going to pay for him to retire while you baby him too? 
NTA. BUT you may be throwing away an opportunity to have a great relationship with your step children due to a misunderstanding on their part. If your husband kept critical information from them during his financial hardship it’s not their fault they assumed he was doing okay. At worst they all (including your husband) share culpability for the breakdown in communication.
They are not warming up to you for what you did for their dad.  They are warming up to you because you are loaded and they want in.

NTA.  Not for one single solitary minute.
NTA 
But his daughters aren’t either. 

Your partner should have explained his finances to them earlier and corrected their assumptions. 

Those girls are still grieving their Mum. 

You don’t owe them anything - they’re grown -! but you should consider a second chance at friendship.
Wait you say they’re mad you didn’t contribute to their weddings but then you say that your husband was running up credit to get her through treatment. I’m trying to get clarification on time lines of when the mother passed and when you got with him. That could play heavily on why they were so anti-you and assumed their father was footing the bill. Either way you can shut them out and make what time you do have what them miserable, or you can be friendly without benefits (if that’s what they’re after, and it seems it could be possible). Whatever it is, you make the conditions for a relationship on your terms. No beach vacation, no lavish lifestyle. If they want you as a friend, then they need to act like it!! Also, NTA.
NTA. The kids get to live with the consequences of their actions. It’s kind of you to let them visit their dad at YOUR home.
NTA. But you should still find a compromise if you truly love and want to be with this man. 

These are his daughters & even though they clearly just want to cozy up because they realize YOU are the one with money - you do not want to be the person that asks him to choose between him and his kids. 

Be firm in your boundaries but don’t outright ice them out.
YTA for not seeing the real culprit here.

Tim is dishonest. Not being honest about his finances is horribly unkind and unfair to his daughters. Not being honest about his current financial situation has led to erroneous assumptions from his daughters. He is the one at fault.

Please talk to the daughters directly and explain the situation. They can't be blamed for believing his implied lies. You can't possibly know their motives until you clear the air with them. 

What you and they want to do about Tim's dishonest behavior? Do you want him to hide the truth from you as he did with his daughters? It's a good idea to make your boundaries clear on this so he knows what he's getting into.

Good luck.
NTA. 

You said it yourself. They could have treated you with decency like any respectful child would to their father's new partner. It doesn't matter what they may think the situation is, you still treat new people with respect. Especially knowing how much they mean to their father.

But they chose to be brats. They could have welcomed you and opened up to conservation. They could have found out about their father's situation in a nice manner and realize what a great person he found. 
They were prejudiced. Now that they realize it's your money, they want to make nice. 

You will need to have a cordial relationship to everyone happy and from blowing it up. But don't feel like you have to open your home to them. You can keep your distance until you feel ready to open up more. 

Just my take
So from what I'm reading, and old man let's his daughters disrespect his girlfriend and he could care less about defending her, as long as nothing ever touches a hair on his pretty little girls' heads. And the girlfriend actually believes that he was so oblivious to his daughters disrespect. He's 60 years old, not 16, he knows they treat you like shit. He also knows you're comfortable enough to let it continue to happen, as you have been the past 2 years.
NTA. But I can understand their hurt since it seems their father left out important details. 

How long after their mother passed that you guys met and started dating? (That can also be a factor.) 

I think you need to consider if you're in this for the long-haul. If yes, these are his daughters, and you're going to have to deal with them. It's better to find a way to come to a truce and be cordial. You don't need to invite them over for vacations, but some effort will be needed. And it'll only get worse as your partner ages and decisions will need to be made.
Now that they realize you're the cash cow and not their dear dad they've changed their tune, how fortuitous for them. Unfortunately for them you have a working memory and can form your own opinion based on the knowledge you attain and remember. Ask yourself why did their seemingly set-in-stone opinions suddenly melt and flip 180⁰ when given this one piece of new information? You're still a new person and not their mom, they still have their dad at family get togethers, and now that you're not there they don't need to butt in to silence you in the conversation. They only saw you as a leech on their assumed inheritance, and now that they know the truth they're scrambling to get in your good graces in some misguided attempt to get their names in your will. NTA.
Hear them out and let them apologize (shows you are the bigger person.)    That Let them come to visit and stay at a hotel.     You can be civil around them for the sake of your partner without being warm and fuzzy.    Certainly if they have any ideas that you are a resource for $$$$ - no way. NTA
Updateme
I think it might be worth having a conversation with them first; they’re going to be a part of your life now. Suddenly doing a 180 now that they know you helped their dad without acknowledging the hurt they put you through is not going to fly, which is why a conversation on common ground needs to happen.
I am Tim...can we go steady?
I hate when people say to “ rise above” or “ be the better person” or “ keep the peace” all that sort of B.S…. That said, I think taking the high road and forgiving them for their misguided assumptions and treating you coldly would be better not just for your husband and his kids, but for you as well. They lost their mum after a long horrible illness, dad shows up with a woman much younger, perhaps nearly the same as his daughters, assume she is gold digging… it seems like no matter what you were gonna get an icy reception. Time to let that iceberg thaw and open your hearts to them, if you can.Take it slow, small doses, see how it goes. If you see a future with this man, they come as part of the package.
My take is that the sisters should have assumed from the first that their dad has some happiness now and been happy gf is in the picture for his sake! All of this money talk is just disgusting greed. I can't believe how many people turn into entitled demons as soon as money is involved. I would find it hard to even look at them.
NTA. The boyfriend is one for not setting the record straight before now. When they were treating you like crap during the holidays he could have explained that without your generosity he would have lost everything and been totally screwed financially and that you’ve been very good to him. Then he could have easily said you had lease a reliable more comfortable car for him instead of making it seem like he was able to do it for himself. His pride definitely contributed to this predicament. But yeah, now they want to make amends. That just goes to show it’s really not about missing their mom but dad spending money on you. 

His daughters are definitely AHs for how they treated you. Even if they missed their mom they could have said it was hard and they wanted to take getting to know you slowly. Two years later they are still pulling that shit because it’s really all about the money. I mean mom is still fine but now all of a sudden they want to have a relationship. Hard pass.
Nta. You don't have to make an effort if you are offended by them. You don't have to have them at your home, either.

But I will say you have one thing wrong. 

>knowing how generous I am being with their Father has made them warm up quicker. 

I think it is more like knowing you are not a gold digger taking advantage of their father. Anyone would be offended by someone taking advantage of someone they love. 

Should they have discussed it with their dad before deciding on their own version of reality, yes! But they failed to do that. For two years, they failed to find the truth and openly demonized you! So I am okay with you not wanting to be around them for that reason.
Just here to chime in that I find it so funny you make him pay the water bill due to his excessive showers. I would have done the same. 😂😂
ESH. 
Daughters for judging you without cause and icing you out.

Husband for not standing up for you by correcting their incorrect assumptions you’re a good digger. I see your other replies about him not wanting them to know he’s struggling but he easily could have told them you don’t need his money without telling them he’s flat broke and in severe debt.

You for refusing to meet them in the middle and let the daughters attempt to reconcile. I’m not saying you have to be overly nice but let them do the work. The way you’re going about it will lead to an ultimatum between you and his daughters and that’s not only a dick move but also a losing battle for you
Tim is the common thread here. He raised those girls. He isn’t transparent about the financial hole that his former wife’s health left him in (if that really is the full story). Those girls were raised in a bubble created by Tim and their mother. He put up with their treatment of you, even after you pointed it out

This is on Tim to straighten out
They haven't warmed up to you... they have realised their Dad has no money, so if they want anything (especially after he dies) they need to befriend you. They now realise you aren't competition for their inheritance, you're the only hope of them having one.

I would question the longevity of your relationship, considering he mooches off you AND allows his children to treat you poorly.

NTA
They were rude to you when they thought they would be eventually inheriting daddy's money, and hated the thought they may end up sharing it with you. Now they realize that there's no money to inherit, and they're hoping they'll somehow end up with yours.

They don't care about you any more now than they did before. You're a meal ticket to them.

NTA
There’s a lot in this post about your partners needs but nothing about yours. That’s the bigger issue imo.
I am 58 and my husband 59. First marriage for both of us..married in our early 20s.  We are now married 34 years.  I was treated like an outsider at all his family's functions.  Not just by his immediate family .. cousins aunts etc.  One of them always felt the need to tell me that they never liked me but now they realize how nice I am and how much I love my husband and they were wrong and were sorry.

About 8 years ago my brother passed and it put alot into perspective for me.  I stopped subjecting myself to the pain and humiliation by being around his family.  I like you would never tell my husband he can't go see his family but made it clear why I would not be joining him.  He stopped asking me about 3 years ago if I wanted to go and politely made an excuse to his family..who now btw asks where I am.  ...again btw ..enjoying peace and solitude while he's with his screwed up family.  You are definitely NTA.😁
You’re right to stand your ground here. Tim’s daughters ignored and alienated you for years based on assumptions. Now that they know you’re the one keeping their dad afloat, suddenly they’re eager to "warm up." You were patient, polite, and gave them multiple chances, and they repeatedly chose to ice you out. And to add a cherry on top, they accused their dad of spending their late mother’s money on you—ouch.



You’re not being petty; you’re setting boundaries. It’s a lot to ask anyone to just brush off years of being snubbed and then jump into a friendly relationship because it’s now convenient for them. I’d say this is more about self-respect than forgiveness.



Tim's daughters have some work to do to show they actually respect you and see you as part of his life, not just as a beachside convenience. If they’re serious about reconnecting, they should earn that by showing they understand the why behind the boundaries you’ve set.
You're  NTA, but you're a nurse with a purse. What does he bring to the relationship?
INFO how long has it been since his wife passed? Because I have more sympathy for his kids if it’s only been a short time.
Just ensure that, even if you marry this man, your major property and funds remain in the trust. You can make him a beneficiary with an annuity (as generous as you wish/the trust can comfortably allow) and lifetime residency in your home (provided you remain married and he outlives you), without his kids being in line to inherit anything that is not one of his personal assets.  

Should they make a big turn around ... earn your affection/trust independent of your relationship with their father and cause you to reconsider ... you could later add them as successor beneficiaries.

I'm a firm believer in ensuring your own interests are protected. I have never married or had kids (by choice). I received a very small inheritance from my mother (but far more than the nothing I had expected given our extreme poverty when I was a child and her habit of racking up her annual earnings in credit card debt alone ... it was nearly enough for me to have bought a new, entry level car at the time of her death). Dad was more sensible with his money, but his long illness and late in life divorce ate a big chunk of it, the remainder of which his girlfriend got a big chunk (rightfully so, as she cared for him during his long illness) and the rest was split between his sister, my sister, and me.

What I'm saying is that what my parents were able to leave for me certainly didn't hurt, but most of my retirement savings came from my own effort and *nobody* is getting a chunk of what my parents left or my investments from before we even met. I have a chronic illness and will likely be forced to retire from work and even die before I can draw retirement. I can't afford to risk those funds.

That goes triple for the funds that my parents were able to leave behind. If I ever choose to marry, it will be after protecting my assets that predate that marriage.

I always recommend that everyone ... male or female, whatever their age, means, and needs ... does the same. Your partner can benefit from your more comfortable financial status (living in your home rent free, using a car you have leased for his benefit, etc) without being given free rein to use/distribute all of your assets as if they were his own (or actually becoming a full an equal owner of your accounts/property). 

NTA. Perhaps give them the benefit of the doubt (due to the misunderstanding that led them to believe you were taking financial advantage of their father) by opening the door to forming some sort of a relationship, but I'm not sure I'd open the door to my home just yet. 

They put all the effort into ensuring you knew that you were unwelcome ... let them also put most of the effort into repairing the rift that they chose to build. I certainly wouldn't put any more into it than they do, going forward.
They aren’t warming up to you. They are warming up to what you possess. NTA
NTA. But since these are people that will remain in your lives, you need a smarter attitude and to set clear boundaries

I believe in humanity, they were probably touched that you looked after their dad. But also got a case of Mc Duck green bill eyes when they found out about your finantial situation and there is a % of self interest. Never forget that


Change your attitude. I know it's tempting to tell them what's what. But think of the long term.

None of "absolutely do not give them my number" but rather a smiley "I suck at consistent communication and I'd rather all go through dad so we are always on the same page". 

Sure the visit sounds amazing. I want to do something special (how about a special meal at home, would you like me to cook something, BBQ etc), and btw I found a couple of airbnbs in the area I'd recommend, let me know what they think and I can help with the booking etc. Instead of "those catties are not staying in my house". 

Boundaries clear without the argument. Boundaries are not a bad thing, a good and civil relationship with them could grow once they are set. Maybe it was just a bad start. 

On the dad, well he has been through a lot and you are a blessing. But keep him in check and while you never want to put him in a choosing position, make sure he is always fair to you.
NTA

I think you are being used here. First the disrespect from the daughters. If they were angry, this anger should have been directed at their father not you. Secondly, don’t let them stay at your house next summer. Also your boyfriend wants you around so he can live somewhere rent free, and share the driving to visit his daughters, in a car you have leant him. Think carefully about who you are with.
NTA Sorry Tim you sired a matched set of gold-digging twits who thought OP was better at their game then they were and were punishing her accordingly.  Now that they know where the real money is they want to suck up in hopes of getting some gilding thrown their way.  OP is 100%+ right in refusing their transparent advances, and you need to take off those rose-tinted glasses before you lose the best thing in your life and lose your girlfriend.

If they were really sorry their response to finding out the truth would have been.  "Gee dad, we didn't realize how bad things were for you, and we're really sorry for misjudging OP and treating her so shabbily for the past few years because of our own assumptions.  What can we do to make things right?"  Nope, they went straight to minimizing both their garbage behavior and how badly OP was treated.

Your girlfriend who supports you was rudely mistreated by your children for YEARS, and all they apologized for was 'her feeling lonely'.  Wake up!
NTA. Now that they found out about your money, they want you to become their ATM.
This is definitely your partner’s fault for keeping them on the dark and not actually confronting enough when they were awful to you, he could have probably figured out what their problem was if he was more forward in confronting them. 

Unless these women apologize and admit directly TO YOU why they were being cold, I wouldn’t give them the time. It sounds like they’re looking to just benefit from your financial situation rather than actually let you in. If they actually own up to why they were being awful and genuinely apologize, give them a chance, they were in the dark. But unless that happens, stand your ground.
ESH. Your partner should have communicated with his adult children in the first place instead of thinking they would magically be mind readers. The daughters for assuming the worst. And you for not giving the daughters any amount of grace for the misunderstanding that was essentially caused by their father’s silence and their grief. (I’m not suggesting that you have to host them or pretend that you’re besties. But the way you write about your partners daughters make it clear that you’re holding on to unhealthy levels of resentment. And resentment like that will poison your relationship. Just have an honest discussion with the daughters about how angry and hurt their behavior made you feel. Silent stewing on the past helps no one; least of all yourself.)

EDIT: my advice and judgement assumes that you want to make it work with this guy. If you don’t want to stay with him then feel free to hold on to whatever feelings you wish. I’m just  saying that resenting his kids like this long term and refusing to communicate will doom the relationship to fail
^^^^AUTOMOD  ***Thanks for posting! This comment is a copy of your post so readers can see the original text if your post is edited or removed. This comment is NOT accusing you of copying anything. Read [this](https://www.reddit.com/r/AmItheAsshole/wiki/faq#wiki_post_deletion) before [contacting the mod team](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FAmItheAsshole)***

I'm (42) dating Tim (59), a widower. He's in banking, I'm a bartender. I know what it looks like. His 2 daughters thought the same thing, but he's broke as a joke and I've got a trust fund, so actually no.  
  
He's broke because his late wife got cancer. 3 times. He ran up 6 credit cards, 2^(nd) mortgage on the house, cashed out his retirement, everything and anything to get her the treatment she needed and then to get treatment enough to see both daughters married.  
  
His daughters live 6hrs drive away.  
  
We drove to them for Xmas last year and the year before. They ignored me, dragged Tim away when he tried to include me and prevented their husbands from making even small talk with me by talking over me.  
  
Year 1 Tim chastised them, they apologized (to him, not me) They blamed the pain of seeing their Dad with a woman who wasn't their Mum.  
Year 2, they did it again.  
  
This year I told Tim not again.  
He could go, I would never ask him not to see his daughters for Xmas but I'll stay here.  
  
Tim didn't love the idea because me going with him means we can share the responsibility of driving when his back starts to bother him. (He hates to fly)  
His 2010 deathtrap is starting to go anyway, so I leased him a comfy luxury ride (my brother has a dealership)  
  
He called the girls, super excited that he'd be able to see them more often without having to worry about his back,, who then blew up and accused him of spending their Mothers money on a “bull\*\*\*\* house and car to impress some bimbo bartender and didn't offer them a dime for their weddings”  
  
In the ensuing argument it came out that they assumed there had been a life insurance policy, nor did they have any idea about the credit card debt or the 2^(nd) mortgage that the house was underwater on or that Tim was looking at foreclosure and bankruptcy until he moved in with me.  
  
They did not realize it was my house, that he pays no bills save the water bill (man takes excessive showers) and shared groceries.  
  
Now the girls want my number. They are sorry I “felt lonely” at Xmas.

They want to come visit and stay with us next year! Conveniently in summer, I live near a beach.  
  
I've told Tim absolutely not about giving out my number. I'm happy to be polite if they come to visit Tim but, we're not going to be friends. If they had talked to me for even 2 seconds they'd have understood. I am not shy about admitting the only thing I have ever contributed to my blessed financial state is “not developing a crippling coke addiction” like my cousin Danny did.

  
Tim thinks I'm being too unforgiving. They would have warmed up to me eventually but knowing how generous I am being with their Father has made them warm up quicker.  
  
I maintain I don't care about now or later, they had their chance to not be catty brats over incorrect assumptions that I was taking advantage of him.

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/AmItheAsshole) if you have any questions or concerns.*
You're in an awful situation, I hope that overtime you find a partner that is right for you
This story sounds really familiar. But if it's true and not a repost, you are absolutely NTA and I would do the same.
NTA

You have every right to hold a grudge. They don’t care about you as a person, they just like your money.
I think the daughters are glad the burden of dad doesn't fall on them since he has a girlfriend to take care of him. If they were good, they would have been welcoming the first visit.
NTA. I’d throw the whole family to the curb. He and his spoiled brats aren’t worth it.
NTA but it’s nothing t too late to throw away the whole man.  Nothing is going to change moving forward.
Nah. Now that they know she's the money, they want to be buddies.
Nta, they only want to be nice now because they know you ha e money.  They are brats and don't deserve more than acquaintance status.
NTA but your partner is.  Rather than being open and honest with his adult children, he chose to save face and let you suffer the fallout.  

Try to find common ground with the daughters in that you can both agree that their father done f*cked up.

Also, if he still has 6 different credit cards, he needs to file a chapter 7 bankruptcy for crying out loud and be done with the debt.  It’s not like he has any assets.
NTA if anything you’re the one being taken advantage of.
I think it's fair to give them another chance. They're his daughters, and they'll be in his life forever. They had to watch their mother die, they didn't know about the finances, and yes, they've been immature brats about all of it; but I don't think it's a grievance worth just leaving them out of your life. I would be having a heart to heart with them, and that doesn't mean not being honest and harsh with your truth about how you've felt after they treated you so poorly.
Yta
You have to know how this looked to them from the outside. The age difference is staggering. And no one had a sound conversation with them. Now you’re taking way too much pleasure in revenge; when you love someone you want to make their loved ones your loved ones.
I'll take things that make you say HELL NO for $500 Alex.

That would be my response to any of his daughters and son-in-laws visiting and/or staying overnight at your house. I need them to keep the same energy they've had for the last 2 or more years.
I don't know, it sounds like they just care about the money angle. "She's spending our inheritance, we hate her" became "she's our inheritance, we love her". It's of course not actual love, just trying to cozy up to a rich person for future financial gain. The hate was real though
When they drive for 6 hours and apologise to your face I would re consider.

But right now, nta
I'm having a real laugh at the people who think the daughters (who are adults and married) are trying to "repair their mistakes." They were mad money wasn't flowing to them, period. 

They realized dad's broke, and the cash cow doesn't like them. You are worth so much more than whatever this relationship is.
Is it too late for you to go to Christmas with Tim? Maybe go and see how they treat you. Give them a chance. Be wary, but they deserve a chance now that they know everything. 

You will know if the effort is genuine.
They thought you were spending his money. Now they know there is none,  they're hoping to get in your good books so they can spend yours. When they visit, they can stay in a hotel.
Let’s say, for the sake of argument, that he DID buy the new car with his money. That’s his right! He can do whatever he wants to with HIS money and the kids don’t get a say in it. They think they can dictate how he spends his (nonexistent) funds because they think they deserve it for their weddings??? Baffled.
YTA. you’re insufferable.
Wow. You are a good writer.  A wealthy 42 year old paying the bills of 59 year old guy with a bad back.  They don’t know that their father is broke.   I have to give you a grade of C+.  Just not realistic.
Nta
Tim sounds like a project. The few things you said about him have me worried for you. I suggest taking a step back and really looking at your situation and decide if you really want to move forward with this guy.
NTA, they showed who they really are.  Now they’re acting because they found out you have money and daddy doesn’t. Set up a “no gaslighting” zone around yourself and let your husband know that applies to him as well.  Protect your assets from these leeches
Your story is fodder for those Reddit stories on YouTube. Give your boyfriend and his daughters a BIG new year’s present: break up with the boyfriend and by extension his whole extended family. You can start a brand new year without their turmoil. You deserve better. Ever the optimist, you probably want a magic wand to make everything better. Unfortunately, you can’t erase the past especially since it’s festered for going on 3 years. 

THE MAGIC WAND: Spend the time packing his stuff up while he’s away with family. Put the packed stuff in a clean, secure, dry storage unit. Change all locks in your house. If he left his old vehicle at your house, get it to the dealership. When he returns from the trip… go directly to the dealership to return the rental vehicle. Give him his marching orders and the keys to the storage unit IN FRONT of a reliable witness like your cousin or the dealership finance manager. Block his numbers and tell him if he needs to contact you, to reach out to your attorney. Start working on yourself. AGAIN, You deserve better. There’s no hope for him or his extended family.
OP, I think you should let go of Tim. He's not a prize, and the way he handled the situation with his daughters shows it. He's broke as a joke, allows them to disrespect you and only brings you companionship. But you can find a better companion.
NTA - they are adults, they should have acted like it but instead showed they are shitty people.
What bugs me about their apology is saying you "felt lonely" at Christmas. You didn't feel lonely. They ignored you, pulled their father away wherever he tried to include you, and wouldn't even let you speak to their damn husbands. Two years in a row. 

You were deliberately made to feel unwelcome. And you did feel unwelcome, because you decided this year you weren't putting up with that.

So now they know the situation is the exact opposite of what they thought, and they want to "make up for it". 

By inviting THEMSELVES to YOUR house. In the summer. And you conveniently live by the beach.

Not by trying to make up for being shitty hosts the last two years in a row with this Christmas. Not doing something for New Year's. Or any of the other holidays between now and summer. Or even just some random ass weekend with no stakes attached to it. 

Hm.

Nta OP. I would lay this out for your partner, and tell him that they've shown you exactly who they are and you intend to believe them. If they're actually remorseful, they need to actually put in effort. And if they want to visit in the summer that bad, they can get hotel rooms.
This entire situation would drive me fucking insane. I have so much respect for you -- I am a patient guy (truly, to my own detriment) but I would be at my wit's end with all these transparent ulterior motives.

The cherry on top was the one ray of hope thinking how sweet it was for him to be forlorn at the idea of you two spending the holidays apart --- then  immediately reading that his distress was rooted in the idea of you not being there to split the driving with him
Adults fuck around and find out. 
Make them suffer a while until things even out.
Yes and no.  
  
Yes, because I don't believe Tim had any idea the girls weren't aware that it's my house. I've heard him refer to it as my house to the girls.

I also had heard him tell them I worked as a bartender for fun, that I don't need to work.

No because Tim is one, prideful and two, protective of them.  He shielded them from what was going on behind the scenes so that they could spend as much time with their dying Mother without being worried about him.  
  
I know he mentioned some things about the move helping him when he first told them he was moving in with me, but the argument was the first time he actually laid everything out to them in no uncertain terms about the house and the debt and cashed out 401k etx

I'm probably giving him the benefit of the doubt because I love him but I think he thought they would figure things out without him having to spell it out and that their coldness to me was solely because I'm not their Mum and they miss her so much.
It sounds like they never came up before the recent argument he had with them.
Same question here, tbh. It's just weird.
OP clarified that he says ‘her house’ all the time. They know he lives at her place at the very least - I don’t think he’s hiding anything and prob just didn’t consider why other grown women would need to know how much money his new partner has…
I would be suspicious of him too.
Not to mention him being all too eager to ditch his grieving daughters to move in with his sugar mama. 
The girls didn't know about the state of the finances because Tim is super protective of them and shielded them from it. He didn't want them to worry about stuff like that when they Mother was literally dying in front of them.  
They've never made bimbo bartender comments to me before. At Christmas they straight didn't talk to me. Tim usually steps out of the room to talk to them on the phone because they talk about their Mother a lot and he wanted to be respectful to me.

I think it never really occurred to Tim that they didn't like me for reasons other than that I was a woman who was not their Mum with their Dad until the argument about the car.
I wouldn't be surprised if he feeds into the assumption. He doesn't his daughters to think bad about him, so he (spinelessly) lets it trickle onto the "bimbo."

Icky behavior for a man of any age, but at 59?!? Oof.
You make a good point and... I don't know.    
Right now I'm like, sure I can go back to doing my own Xmas with my cast of characters, did that for years before Tim and I got together.  
But what happens with birthdays, his 60th is coming up, thats a biggie. What happens when the girls have kids and he wants to go there more often.  
I asked Tim to move in with me so he'd have less stress in his life, not more....
Would that be such a bad thing. I find it weird he never brought up all the OP has done to make his life easier whilst trying to get his daughters to warm up to her. He never told them the only reason he’s not homeless is because OP let him move in? He’s never bragged about great a person she is and “unintentionally” told them that far from being a gold digger she has a trust fund?
Isn't the reason he is in the middle because he leaves his kids in the dark which is exactly what caused them to behave as they do among others. OP even opens with "bimbo with banker" but not so much, banker is broke and bimbo got cash. Nobody knows, not even the two girls. 

OP isn't an asshole but to change how everyone views each other wouldn't be bad to sit down. And all fairness if the kids realize that OP isn't some gold digger herself and warm up to her well.. what's wrong with that? OP is imo blaming the wrong people here.
From the post, OP isn’t gonna be an ass to them, she’s just not gonna be buddy buddy or go out of her way to have them over, see them at events, or have a relationship with them. I think that’s fair. Why should she have to have a strong relationship with her BF’s kids?  As long as she’s polite and civil when they are interacting, I feel like that’s enough imo. Who knows, maybe a friendship develops over time, but I think polite should be plenty for now. 
"Considering that the daughters knew nothing at all about their parents' financial state BEFORE you arrived, it's safe to assume that they did not regularly have conversations with their parents about planning for end of life, etc."

Correct. Tim didn't want them to worry about him when they were losing their Mum.

As for your question, he set them straight during the argument, once he realized that they had it backwards. That was really the first time it had been aired out.

"You say you know what the situation looks like to outsiders... so why would you not be understanding of them thinking it is what it looks like?"

Because they aren't outsiders. They had opportunities to talk to me and get to know me. This whole thing could have been avoided if they'd said more than "hi and bye" in 2022.
Yeah, this guy really sounds like he sucks. I haven't heard a single positive thing about him yet.
SO MUCH THIS
My sister and I were in our 30's when our mom passed unexpectedly.  Dad remarried 4 years later and has been married 5 years now.  My sister is still pissed he remarried, "he didn't wait long enough".  Doesn't like his wife because she's nothing like our mom, which I think is part of the draw for my dad.  She has made it very clear dads wife is not her kids grandmother (her oldest was all of 3 when mom died) and has repeated it so often in front of her kids that my teenage niece told step-mom to her face that step-mom wasn't her grandmother.  And now sis gets pissed off because step-mom refuses to come to her house.  

OP is in a no-win situation here.  The kids are only willing to tolerate her because they want things from her.  OP needs to evaluate if this is the wife she wants to have, from her post it doesn't sound like she has kids of her own to spend the holidays with.  If OP chooses to stay there needs to be a very frank conversation that she isn't going to bankroll their lives and there is nothing for them to inherit.  My guess is kids won't want anything to do with OP once again.
I was thinking this same exact thing
I agree with all this. While unkind and assholey, I can see why they behaved the way they did and they’re probably not bad people. It’s probably worth it to at least give them a chance to apologize and be cordial. 
“Or they are douchey shit bags and you can tell Tim to keep his family separate.”

I think it’s this one. They complained when they thought their father spent money to be more comfortable, and that OP didn’t spend money on their weddings (even though she didn’t know them at that point). When they learned the truth the said they were sorry that OP “felt lonely” (instead of apologizing for their actions), and their “olive branch” was for OP to give them a free vacation to her summer house.
Yes I agree. I would try to view it through empathy, but still hold them at arms length. If you love their dad, the best thing for you all would be to reconcile. The girls don’t have to be your bffs but I would try to put my irritation and pride aside for peace in the family. Things like birthday parties and holidays will go a lot smoother instead of everyone brooding about something in the past.
This. The dad dealt with the mom’s illness and passing every day for 24hours a day. The kids are experiencing their father’s life at a much slower speed. Maybe even days when reality was actual years. 

However it’s also fair to OP to say that it didn’t go well and while you don’t have to offer them this grace of understanding. It might be better in the long run to at least try. The daughters still need to catch up to speed and be much more understanding in their own right.
I’m probably being overly empathetic to the daughters but I can understand how they came to behave like that. My Uncle died very suddenly due to cancer complications and within months a ‘friend’ of my aunt moved in to help her out (my aunt and uncle had no children together) and because he’d fallen on hard times and my aunt was a good person who didn’t want to see him on the streets.

When my aunt died a few years later they were still living together and he cleared the house of stuff that didn’t belong to him when he knew we wouldn’t be there. It’s clear to us all now that he took advantage of her grief and kind nature to wiggle his way into her life.

So I can understand that these girls mom died after a lengthy battle with cancer and (from OPs comments) in the height of covid lockdowns, and then seemingly 2 years later their dad has bought a new house and moved in with a younger woman- I’d probably also be concerned he was being taken advantage of.

That said, I completely agree they handled this all wrong, they could’ve sat down with their dad right in the beginning and laid out their concerns instead of being hostile to OP and then having to grovel when proven wrong.
Ok thank you, you're the first person to clock that and it put into words something I was feeling some kind of way about but hadn't quite put my finger on why.

He called them, all excited to be able to see them more. They instantly leapt that he did it for me and kicked off the argument.

I know they hated that he moved away, he was so happy to be able to reassure them that that would be less of a concern now and they attacked me instead of being happy about seeing their Dad more.

I've been reading a bunch of comments so I'm leaning towards grief and miscommunication and concern for their Dad made me their Villain more than them being awful people (Its hard to image Tim raising nasty people to be honest) but man, now I'm kind angry all over again.
A couple of years ago I finally had to pull a trigger on purchasing a new car since my car at the time was 15 years old with nearing 300k miles on it. Things were breaking down consistently and major maintenance was required every 6 months. I was spending too much that I felt that paying money on a newer trusted car would be better so I did that. I'd never want to do a SIX HOUR DRIVE to visit my family in that old car. I'd never want my parents in that car visiting their granddaughter (my niece). I had the engine misfire on me more than once. So much about that car was burning money to me. He bought a new car to replace one 15 years old that's GREAT!!! I can't imagine being upset my parents bought a new car to replace one that is 15 years old.
Ok why aren't there more comments about this? He's awful, the kids are awful. What is he really bringing to the table other than a lot of drama.
I'm concerned that OP has found herself a man like my ex. This kind of man is a charismatic master of performances. He's attractive, and he has a tragic backstory in which he totally did the right thing for all the right reasons, but which caused him severe set backs from where he should be. None of it is his fault of course. He made all the noble choices and sacrifices and is just a hapless victim to it all.

She talks about how he loved his late wife, how he can't even share details of her second cancer diagnosis and their last years together because he cries too much to get it out. She talks about how he shows how much he loves his daughters, that he did and still does shield them from any uncomfortable knowledge and situations. She talks about his pride being an issue and something that needs to be addressed.

Let me ask you this, OP - is it really pride? Or is a performance? Because his actual actions suggest he is performing a role, carefully crafted and executed to maintain his image as "poor amazing successful man who's had his heart tragically broken". 

A man still so grieving his late wife that he can't even talk about her without crying, yet he speed runs his first relationship after her passing into moving in together in 7 months, of a long-distance relationship? 

And you insisted that he move in with you so you could ease his stress? Let me guess, he played the role of the exhausted care-giver who was always putting everyone else's needs before his own, who just really needed someone to take care of him for once, so he could rest and recover and eventually find his way back to being this amazing, successful, incredibly giving partner at some unforeseen future time? You can see all your dreams of love coming true with him sometime down the road, so it's okay that he's not the best partner just yet because \*if\* you put in enough time/energy/money caring for him, he'll eventually heal and then, \*then\* he'll love you the way you so desperately want to be loved, the way he must have loved his late wife given the way he cries over her.

A man who genuinely loves a woman that deeply is not living with someone else and sweeping them off their feet less than 2 years later. A loving parent would not move 6 hours away from their kids less than 2 years after they lost their mother without once telling them why it was an absolute necessity that he does so and NOT that he's choosing to move away from his kids to buy a beach house with his new girlfriend. 

This wasn't sheltering them from uncomfortable knowledge. This isn't pride. THIS IS A PERFORMANCE. Because if he really loved them, he would have made sure they knew. If he really loved you, he would have made it clear to them up front how incredibly lucky he was to have found you because you are a legit blessing from the heavens, his knight in shining armor come to save his ass. He let them believe you were a gold-digging bimbo because it continued his image as "poor amazing successful dad who is always getting dealt a shit hand".

But what really did it for me, what absolutely 100% did it for me, is that when you refused to attend Christmas this year he objected \*because he was counting on you doing some of the driving and you not attending would worsen his back pain."

Sis, I love my husband. Like would die a thousand deaths, will never have another relationship after he dies type of love. And if he told me he wasn't going to Christmas with me because my kids made him feel unwelcome, my issue would NOT be my fucking back pain.

You gotta ask yourself - do his actions show that he loves \*you\*? Or do they show that he loves what you do for him? Because I'm really concerned you're being taken advantage of here.
THANK YOU! OP needs to get rid of this man. Her comment about how she admires how much this man loved his wife and loves his daughters. Like OP, how does this man love you?????
Partner, not wife.  Given his finances and probable credit score, you'd do well to keep everything of yours separate, ownership and money wise.  NTA
This was my thought too. I would understand giving them time to “warm up” if they were children, but these are adults who should be able to understand their dad finding a new relationship
Its still very raw. The big argument happened only last week.   
I'm not sure the girls would have come if it was supposedly "having a tough time seeing Dad with another woman" that caused the issues at the two Xmas's but I assume they couldn't get time off work.
Yep.  They were mad about dad giving money because they want that inheritance.  Now they know that dad is broke they have made a backup plan, you.  I say be cordial, but never friendly.
My read as well, they would have given a much better apology otherwise. Not I'm sorry you were lonely but I'm sorry we were awful to you
This is a wild ass cynical take. 

If your recently widowed dad started dating a bartender, and appeared to buy a new house she was living in, extravagant cars, etc. - would you not be suspicious as hell that she were a gold digger? I’m imagining the Reddit post from the kids perspective now - and the flood of comments proclaiming our OP as a honey trapping hussy trying to ruin their dad. 

So, if that was your fear - which I anticipate would be a fear for most children of a vulnerable parent - would you not be relieved to find out this isn’t the case? Wouldn’t you want to apologize? 

Remember - they thought dad had money all this time. If they were greedy bastards, that would probably already be canon.
This is the exact kind of assumption OP is holding a grudge over lol

If that were the case, why weren’t they visiting their dad when they thought he was rich? Why would they think they could get stuff NOW, when they realize it’s not their dad with money, it’s the woman they’ve been treating like shit for so long? It doesn’t make sense to me.
⬆️ my thoughts
I was thinking the same thing. They sound like they aren’t truly sorry they are just trying to get in your good graces because you have money.
I came here to say this as well.  You don't make that big of a 180 that quick in a situation like this unless you're wanting something out of it.
Yeah, unfortunately, I think this is the case, too.
Exactly. They know she's loaded now and wants free stuff.
Yep. "I'm sure your dad would love to have you visit. Let me know if you need hotel suggestions!"
This. And the irony is that THEY sound like actual golddiggers. They could’ve at least been civil before, regardless of any misunderstanding. Entitled brats. Looks like they were just more worried about money they thought they were entitled to, which didn’t actually exist. now they find out that OP is loaded and suddenly they want to be friends. BS. Keep your distance. Be civil, but I don’t know that I would ever necessarily be warm. Remember why they had a “change of heart“.
I think this is the best course of action. It's too difficult to tell if the fault lies with the children or their father, but any resentment will not help this relationship. Yes, they can visit, but no, they can't stay with you. Things need to move along if OP wants this relationship to work, so moving cautiously without resentment is best.
Thank you.  
I'm really trying not to assume the worst of them! Just protect my peace and no, I would never make him choose.  
I know I'm dating a widower with kids! I love his huge heart for his family, I just don't feel the need to be buddy buddy with them.
1st time she got cancer was 2015, she worked part time and Tim full time. Girls were entering collage which Tim paid for. Savings got wiped out thanks to her income disappeared as she went into aggressive treatment.  
2nd time was end of 2017 I think, Tim doesn't talk about it much and gets teary when he tries to. This is when he started relying on credit cards, then cashed out retirement to pay those back as best I can tell. The younger of the two was in college, older got married around this time.  
3rd time was March, 2020, they had to pay for private hospice mostly out of pocket as the hospitals were full of dying Covid patients. This is when the 2nd mortgage happened and more credit card usage happened.  
The younger girl married in June 2020, their Mum died 2 months later.   
I started seeing Tim in January of 2022, and that was the year we went to the first Xmas with the girls. 

Thats my best estimate from piecing together Tim's stories.
Friendly without benefits lol! I think she should start this way too. Accept the olive branch but be aware. It’s possible it was all just a misunderstanding with the added death of a parent thing thrown in.
That isn’t what OP said. She said they were upset that her husband hadn’t given any money towards the wedding.
I would never tell him not to see them, even if that meant coming here. Yes, I own it but the house but he lives here so it's his home. and I honestly love how much he loves.  
He loved his wife so much. He loves his girls so much. I feel like can't admire that about him and then put limits on it for him.
I would not let them visit my house, at all. He can keep going to them, as he has been doing. 

They are down playing how they purposely treated OP. *"Oh my goodness! Did you think we were ignoring you? Freezing you out? We were only calling you a gold-digger behind your back as a joke, tee-hee. And all while our dad is living off of you. You knew it was all in fun, right? Why are you insulted? By the way, we plan on using your house as a free vacation hotel."*

 I would also be considering if he would hide things from you in the future.
1.5 years after the mother’s death. Not even 2 years. Home boy wasted no time moving in with his sugar mama either.
Not to mention that it sounds like they haven’t even apologised properly. They didn’t say they were sorry for *how they treated OP for years*, they said they were sorry that she *felt lonely at Christmas*. Reducing it down to one holiday instead of multiple years, and making it about OP’s emotions instead of their assumptions and bad behaviour.
OP stated in another comment that it's been 4 years since she passed, and they started dating 2 years ago.
Tim and I will never marry, we discussed that when I floated the idea of him moving in with me.  
He didn't want his debt attached to me or my inheritance attached to him, to which I completely agree.  
He is also deeply attached to having been his wife's only husband and her his only wife, which I think is beautiful. I like to think I have him on loan from her.
“Help with the booking” sounds like paying for it. If that’s not what’s intended I wouldn’t use the phrasing.
This is a really mature way of going about it.
Issues that last for years usually take years to repair the damage. This just happened, so OP is allowed some time to process. If the daughters can't give a real apology and put in the work to create a true relationship, then I wouldn't blame OP if she stayed distant from the daughters.
I hate when people say this you can grieve all you want but you have no right to take it out on anyone. Y’all are treating these girls as teenage girls when they are grown women with their own families. They know right from wrong 

The daughters didn’t give her any grace whatsoever until they found out she had money and their dad didn’t.They weren’t even happy when they found out their dad got a car to visit them more but instead begin to yell at him for spending money and accusing him of trying to impress her.

They don’t care about protecting their dad it’s about their inheritance. They didn’t care about visiting until they found out he lived in a beach house provided by op.They don’t care they just want money.If they did care they would’ve started by trying to Make amends but they didn’t do that they immediately wanted something from her.
Yep! THIS. RIGHT. HERE.
NTA  -- I'd be suspicious that they like you now that they know you have money and a house at the beach. Reddit is full of peoples' horrid experiences with FaMIlY whenever a pile of money turns up. 

You have every right to refuse to make nice with them now that they know their dad is the supposed \*golddigger\* (by their assumptions that there was one at all)  in the relationship.
If their coldness to you was solely because you aren't their Mum - then why would it change now?  You still aren't their Mum.  The only difference is that now they know you have money.
I think they might have just worked out that their only hope of an inheritance is you. I can recommend some very good charities.....
Hun you deserve better. This man is using you for your money and he cant even tell his bratty kids to be nice to you? It's been three yrs and the only reason they have suddenly changed their tune is they now know you are rich. He is just at fault here as they are. He's had years to correct their assumptions and hasnt. Dump the loser and ditch his bratty kids
If he’s prideful, it makes sense that he wouldn’t correct them or intervene. Saying you bartend for fun doesn’t necessarily imply that you have money. It could just as easily mean that your partner covers all the bills so it’s just a hobby you have. Calling it your house also doesn’t mean he hasn’t taken over the mortgage or is paying for everything else so you can afford it. Hell, they probably thought he bought you the house. I would be upset too! 

I’m going to go with a light ESH.

Your partner mainly, for allowing them to believe you were siphoning off his resources when he could have easily had this conversation with them the moment this became an issue.

The daughters for being cruel to you, although if they were receiving misinformation, it makes sense that they would be. Like you said, it looks a certain way. For them to know absolutely NOTHING about their dad’s situation, he’d have to be lying or intentionally hiding some things from them. 

You, least of all, for failing to put yourself in their position and understanding that they may have been misled. You haven’t been an asshole yet, but if that’s what happened, you should try to forgive them. They seem very apologetic and you certainly don’t owe them anything, but if you plan on remaining in this man’s life you should accept their apologies and start working on building that relationship, even if it’s very slow and distant. Otherwise you’re going to put your partner in a position where he has to choose between you. And that would eventually make you an asshole too.

Edit: you guys are right, they weren’t necessarily very apologetic, but it seems like they are making an effort to repair the relationship. I agree, I don’t think OP needs to give them the time of day until they give her a genuine apology for the way they treated her, and she certainly should be careful with her money. But I maintain that if they do apologize sincerely and OP remains closed off to forgiveness (which is what she’s claiming she’s going to do) she would also be an AH. If she knows their father let them believe she was a gold digger, it’s really him she should be angry with.
Do not let them stay at your house when they visit, they can get a hotel
I mean what was he supposed to do? Tell them to stop being rude because you’re the one supporting him not the other way around? It’s not polite to talk about other peoples money and they should be nice to you out of genuine respect not because they wanna buddy up with dad’s rich girlfriend. N I hate to say this, but please don’t marry him OP. You don’t want to be stuck with his debt after he passes. Have a ceremony if it comes time, sure, but do not legally tie yourself to him.
I think they’ve been assholes but Tim has failed to explain it. They didn’t like him moving on and they just assumed the worst and made you the villain in their heads. They were factually wrong on many points. Now they understand and want to make amends. If they genuinely apologize, I think you should let them. They were wrong, and it’s worth trying to rebuild bridges.
Don't listen to MastaBlasta. The women, not girls, are old enough to know that cancer treatments times three and two weddings are not cheap. The only reason they're sucking up to you now ( and that is exactly what they are doing) is because they finally realize that without you, their dad is screwed. Stick to your guns and make them earn your forgiveness.  But don't ever forget.
Friend, 
I don't have a trust fund but I have a wealthy husband who gives zero fucks about money. I too have an inheritance from my dad that I don't give a damn about. I work for the fuck8ng Post Office for fun!!!

I own 4 h9mes 8n Florida alone and few other I inherited.  Though my husband and I share all of our children, we do have family that treated me like garbage when we got married and he told me to "take a break from the rat race and have fun". The only difference is my husband told his family from day 1 "My wife has her own money, and mine is just what she uses to keep the house up. If I lost my job tomorrow, our lives wouldn't change because she can cover everything.  I asked her not to work and I force her to take mini trips without me. Anyone who has a problem, let it be known Now so we can no longer communicate ".

This was 24 years when we first got married. We only knew one another for 6 months, got married and started having kids. Everyone thought I baby trapped him. The man lived in Micronesia for the first 5 months of our relationship.  He came home, we got married, then we moved to Germany.  It was crazy and they all blamed me. Not his job, me.

Anyway. You are not wrong. Those girls want trust funds for their kids. They want you pay for college and family vacations. They are in no way trying to make nice because they "understand the situation ".  This is a money grab and you are smart enough not to fall for it. Wait a while. They are going to bring up the idea of a destination Christmas or Hawaii vacation and they will all look to you to foot the bill. Dont fall for it.

Also, Now I kinda want to be a bartenders.Hahahahah
Saying this as a kid whose separated parents dated for awhile- sometimes you have to be the one to clear the air.

You said that Tim may have not clarified things because he's prideful and protective.

My mother was prideful and protective, too. That meant she never told me the real story.

If your husband may have not told them the real story, then they don't know everything. 

Look at their reaction right now. They want to be friendly now that everything's on the open. Do you think that they would've been friendlier sooner?
OP, you handled this like a champ. These aren't little kids and you weren't trying to mother them. They decided to mistreat and abuse you and now only want to make up because they know you have money. Nope! Leave the relationship as is. And, get a life insurance policy on Tim, just in case you need to prepare funeral arrangements for him. That will stop you from having to deal with them if he dies. They are horrible. They could have and should have treated you better.
>No because Tim is one, prideful and two, protective of them.


What does pride have to do with correcting some one when they are acting the fool?  Infact seems like something someone WITH pride would do.


No offense but all this post did was make him sound spineless
OP, I'd be very suspicious of their motivations. You were a guest in their homes during the holidays and they should have been gracious hostesses to you. Regardless of their thinking about you and dad at the very least they could have politely welcomed you into their homes. I was raised with southern hostess traditions and would never treat a guest like that in my home. Even if I didn't like them.
I am betting that they didn't know. At least not enough to lighten up. You also have no idea what he said to them privately. I'm honestly surprised that you are so angry at them when it really doesn't sound like your bf did enough to set the record straight until recently. IMO, if you are still interested in continuing the relationship, it would be a good idea for everyone to get along. They aren't just going to magically vanish from his life. They have offered an apology to you. What more do you want?
To me it sounds like he was perfectly happy to let them think you're a gold digger right up until it blew up in his face.
My guess is that they were angry he never tried to help them financially when they needed it while watching him “blow money” on some woman he met, and were very disgruntled with him. I would be too. The real AH here is the husband for not correcting them immediately. A lot of people here seem to think they just want OP’s money, but if they were really just looking for money, wouldn’t they be visiting their dad anyway when they thought he controlled the purse strings?
Yeah, pretty much this.
He's not blind, unless he chose to do so. He only spoke to them after the daughters went off on him, it was all fine when you were the target. 
I'm also a widow with a few dollars. I'm older than you, and wouldn't date anyone his age, because I don't want to be, "a nurse or a purse." You're NTA.

Tim's TA because he could have said, "TheMothmanCometh has a house that I'm moving into." He may or may not have framed it as already being your home. Tim also didn't want to burden them before, but he could have had an honest conversation before his daughters met you and said, "Now's a good time to let you know my situation. I don't have any money, due to your mother's treatment. I can't even afford to retire right now. I'm working on it though, so don't worry, but also be prepared." Mom was gone and they were already married. He could have been honest that he was leasing a car and got a deal from your brother. Pride is no excuse for this. Heck, I lost a huge amount of money in a bad investment and told my daughter about it, because I don't want her thinking I pissed it away or gifted it. He really was concerned about his own appearance here.

The daughters are TA because of the immense entitlement. They could have asked their father about your situation with him before you both drove all the way there. They could have done what many of us do and seek counseling while grieving, or at least have a conversation with their father about how they felt. I don't think it was a surprise when you showed up, I think they fully planned on how they would react before you walked in. They do sound a little greedy and you don't have to host anyone, so if they visit, tell them to stay in a hotel. Most importantly - they never, ever made one effort to apologize sincerely to you.

I get that you love the guy, and that's great, but you might want to step back and take a look at the whole situation. He doesn't communicate and has a lot of needs and raised entitled brats. Do you really want that?
I find it very hard to believe it never crossed his mind that they might mistakenly believe you were a gold digger. You’d think even if he didn’t directly think of it, or address that, he would have been explaining to them how kind and generous you are, for example letting him live in your house. Come on, you know if you were in his shoes this misunderstanding never would have lasted for several years. Tim is TA and a mooching one at that.
Based on the info, I’m leaning toward ESH but you being NTA now but potentially moving to AH. I don’t think you’re an AH for feeling the way you do. Fuck, I’d be hurt too. But you need to realize that they were harbouring these assumptions BC Tim never told them shit besides you’re a bartender. So with dad being a banker and seeing all these expensive purchases- well they leapt to the classic cliche. Still not great look for them being catty and mean to a supposed ‘gold digger’ so that’s what makes them AH but they seem to be trying to make amends. Now Timmy boy- come on. He knows what the situation looks like - you did- and he never cared to share that info  (?)- especially when they were being ice queens to you (he could have said “stop it - she’s been supporting me so much emotionally and financially…fuck she saved me from being homeless)…whether that is pride or protectiveness (doubtful? But ok let’s pretend that’s true) still AH move toward you. Give it time and try to see it from the daughter’s perspective. See if they change for real (truly want to make amends fr) and then take it from there but try to remain open. Best of luck OP.
They might not have made a comment but to anyone looking in from outside, that’s how your situation looks. Tim is old enough to know better. He should have talked to his daughters about his situation way before. You are misdirecting your anger to the daughters who were only trying to protect their father. Your anger should be towards your partner, who did absolutely nothing about clearing the air or acting as a bridge between you and his family.
I actually think he's the AH here. He didn't want to tell them to protect them is odd bc they are not young kids. He didn't want to tell them bc of his ego. And the daughters acted so entitled, if he did have money, he isn't required to spend it on grown people. I personally think he wanted to make himself look good to everybody vs worrying about the tension. I don't think he's worth dating.
Yeah, I mean, it sucks that these grown women were this rude to you. But if I consider the fact that they dealt with their mother having cancer three times (!!!), then their dad moving in with a woman after not so long, when they erroneously believed there was money to be had and that perhaps you were taking advantage of him/they were being sidelined...I can see why they would've struggled accepting you. And it probably isn't personal, while it feels that way to you—they would've behaved similarly with any woman he was dating, given that they didn't know the truth. 

It's really weird he didn't clue them into what happened at all. They didn't need a line by line look at the family finances, but after the dust settled, I find it kind of mind-boggling that there wasn't a conversation around what was left after mom's death and the financial strain it brought on, if only to let to give them an accurate picture.

It's also kind of weird that he didn't feel the need to interject on your behalf earlier, or sit these girls down and talk to them about his relationship. Again, not excusing how these women behaved but their experience with their mother sounds like it could be really traumatic. Why didn't he nip this shit in the bud the second he heard them talking disparagingly about you or hearing your discomfort about going?

If you want to continue the relationship with their father, I think you should extend an olive branch. You don't need to be best pals with them at this time, but they are reaching out to build a relationship with you. I would take that and their apology at face value for now, while letting the relationships form at a speed you're comfortable with, if only because they can continue to make things quite difficult for your relationship if you rebuff their attempts. They lost their mother and he lost his wife. If he ends up having to choose between them and you, it'll be them.

But also, maybe have a chat with your partner about why he let this animosity continue for so long without setting the record straight. That's some bullshit.
There's an immense amount of green flags just oozing out of the guy as well, do you see how far he was willing to go to care for his late wife? He also obviously cares for his daughters, men can never fucking win 😆
Don’t let them come visit in the summer (they want free accommodations near a beach).  That’s a privilege that has to be earned after at least 2-3 years of treating you right.
You might consider drawing a boundary that isn't being friendly but also isn't putting him in the middle. Such as - if they wanna stay at your place on the beach in the summer - not saying you need to give in right away, but set the max amounf of time they are allowed to remain in your house nice and low, in certain time periods you're more comfy with (might not be summer) and make it clear up front that certain house rules are to be followed.

You might yourself feel less irritated with them if they follow the rules properly. If they don't? Well, you reached out an olive branch. If they respect your time, your home, etc etc, then that is more meaningful than any text or phone call could be, so you might actually feel willing to allow them in your space more in the future (not saying you have to).

Who knows, they could do a proper 180 and try being polite, call on your birthday, etc etc - in my experience, if you tell someone how to apologize, it is hard to believe the apology because they just did what you said. But if you set boundaries and they respect them, you allow them in your space and they pick up trash and ask what you want on the pizza, so on and so forth - that can feel more believable.

If you reach a point where you believe them to be sincere in their respect for you, then your opinions about where to go next might change.
Ya that’s all stuff you gotta think about before you make your decision. You don’t have to do anything you don’t want to and they certainly don’t deserve it but you really gotta think about the long game w something like this.
Tim can go visit them and the parties can be at their house. You can make the sacrifice to go to their territory. If you decide to host his party, they cannot stay in your house. They have to earn( next 4 years at least)the right to spend time in a vacation house at the beach.
NTA of course. Their father's (and your) financial situation is none of their business. It doesn't matter if you were being a golddigger, your boyfriend chose to be with you and the least his daughters owe you is being cordial. 

If I was in this situation, I would let them visit and/or go visit them but only be cordial. They had 2 whole years to be nice to you but chose cruelty at just about every chance. Who the hell does that, preventing their husband from talking to a guest like that? 

I would never, under any circumstances, give them money. In fact, I would make it abundantly clear to him and his daughters that the daughters will never receive a dime of your money and if that's why they're trying to get in your good graces now, they might as well stop the charade now. 

>But what happens with birthdays, his 60th is coming up, thats a biggie. What happens when the girls have kids and he wants to go there more often.

You coordinate with his daughters to see who will be doing what to celebrate. It's likely they'll have you pay for everything so do what's in your budget but let them help. When his daughters have kids and he wants to visit them, you decide without guilt if you want to join him or not.
You're not the source of this particular stress, they are. Encourage him to encourage them to take the L, and everyone can be Southern polite to each other until they cowboy up and make a real apology to you directly. Then you all can start over.
I suggest starting small. Go to a couple events where you're both in the same room, maybe not Xmas, and definitely don't let them have extended visits at your house yet. See how they treat you, and how Tim reacts if they do treat you badly.

If they have genuinely changed, they'll be extremely apologetic in person, and show it through their actions. If not, you'll see that too, then be able to make clear judgements. You'll also be able to tell Tim, "Hey, I tried. I gave them a second chance."

Personally, I think it's rich that the daughters liked to essentially call you a gold-digger, then became all warm and fuzzy once they found out you have money.
I just want to add that there is always going to be a problem with his children. And because of that there is always going to be a problem with him. If you think you can take on this whole dysfunctional family and make it work, without making your own life, too unhappy, then try. But from the other side of such a situation, it never really got better and to the end of his life, his children were a constant source of pain for both of us. And his failure to ever be able to really stand up for me, was always a source of pain for me. When he died after a lingering illness, relationship with his children was over immediately. I spent 25 years of vacations with them of hearing about all of their problems, about helping them financially and legally and emotionally, despite the constant low-level disrespect, and then I moved on my life. So, you can decide to end it now and find someone who will be supportive of you emotionally, and be someone who will stand up for you, or you can stick with him. Just don’t think that there is a family here or ever will be.
Another question would be how long have you been partnered? And when did this argument occur, in which the truth was shared?

  
Ultimately, I totally understand your unwillingness to open up to them. They've been cold, distant, rude... and to flip a switch once they hear about your money is NOT a good look. 

Despite their treatment of you, they may have been acting with the intent of protecting their only living parent. Of course, there are MANY ways to go about expressing concern that don't rely on petty mind games... but you left out a timeline, so we don't know how fresh any of this is. 

I would say NTA for not being 'friendly' - like you said, you can be polite, professional, courteous all without getting friendly or personal. BUT by holding onto a grudge over how they treated you before they knew the truth, you could be shooting yourself in the foot (if you like this guy).
I’ve been lucky in my life to be surrounded by people who give me immense grace during challenging times in my life. I try to extend the same thing. Life can be really tough, especially when it comes to family and death.
Was Tim upset about this? What's his take on this? They might owe him an apology too
You're getting a lot of perspectives thrown at you so it makes sense to be building both empathy and resentment. That's totally reasonable.

Just take all the negative comments about Tim's daughters with a grain of salt. It is so easy to anonymously pass judgement and say they are bad actors. It's the trap of AITA - negativity and criticism has such a low barrier of entry that you'll get bombarded with comments that, as you say, will make you angry all over again. It's validating but it's also a brutal echo chamber. 

Your anger is real. Understand and process it, but don't let it lead you.
As a daughter who's seen her Dad widowed twice (he has bad luck) and putting myself in their shoes I think I may respond the same way. Not because I'm a gold digger but because I would be afraid you are. 

With the info they believed to be true (their Dad is a successful banker who has savings and their mom's life insurance policy) I can see them trying to be protective when he starts dating someone closer to their age instead of his (I'm guessing). And when I see him getting a "new" house and car saying it's because of you. If be afraid you had convinced him to get something he didn't need under the guise of doing it for his children but would then use it and he wouldn't really be able to see him any more often. 

When they saw that in reality you were rescuing him then I can honestly see a change without it being about the money. 

No longer are you a young woman after their Dad's wealth because he's vulnerable after their mom died. Now you're a woman who saw their Dad struggling and still dated him and are supporting him with things so that he can continue to be in their lives. The fact that you're willing to be with him even with all his baggage would make me really see you in a new light and want to get to know you. 

I'm not saying they're not about the money (because they honestly may be) but I wouldn't necessarily write them off just yet...
You haven’t made much mention of his 6 hour move away from the family hometown to be with YOU. They lost their Mom and then 2 years later, their Dad seemingly abandons them as well. I understand they are adults, but we all need family connections throughout life.  

It is rare for parents to up and move away from their children, it is usually the other way around. Parents usually choose stay close, host Sunday dinners and be active grandparents. 

You mentioned your family isn’t close so you may not understand what a huge deal him leaving was. I imagine they felt very hurt, abandoned and rejected when he chose to leave.
Definitely NTA.

I think his kids were less worried about their dad being taken advantage of and more worried that he was spending “their” inheritance. The point about the car makes it clear what is their priority and it isn’t dad’s health or happiness. I would be cordial but that’s it.
I don't know why you're leaning towards the grief theory when all signs point to "don't touch our inheritance wench" and now that he's set them straight on who has the money suddenly they want to meet you.

I'd be VERY cautious about welcoming them any more than to the extent that you would have before this to allow their dad to see them but with low contact from you.
You summed up my feelings perfectly. I had to go too far down to find this comment. I wasn’t in the mood to write all the ways in which this relationship is bad for OP. I thought it was me being pessimistic when I felt he was playing a role. All of his actions point to the opposite of what he is portraying himself as. Op states he is prideful yet he has no problem moving in with her in less than a years time without contributing anything towards bills except the water since he runs it up, which leads me to believe that if he didn’t use water like crazy she wouldn’t have him pay a dime. There’s so much wrong with this situation. I’m glad you pointed out him complaining about his back driving and depending on her going to help him out while dismissing the disrespect OP is shown by his daughters just to make him more comfortable. I haven’t seen anyone mention this yet. It was the first thing that stood out to me as relationship ending. How dare he put his comfort above her dignity when she is providing for his entire existence. What does this almost retirement age man bring to her life? It definitely isn’t stability. She needs to untangle herself before she ends up being guilty tripped into taking care of him as he starts declining. 
I really hope OP reads this.
omg! omg! omg! Thank you, dear commenter, for words/phrases that will help *me* maintain equilibrium in a situation I’m in. My [nonromantic]  loved one recently was terminated from his career position [financial malfeasance involved] and he has been around here   ‘taking care of his daddy’. He’s putting on the PERFORMANCE of a lifetime and developing his ‘tragic backstory’ that he’s taking a leave of absence from his business to take care of his desperately ill daddy because he’s the only one who ever does anything for him. It is so confusing and so hard not to fall for his performance. If I didn’t know what I know I would totally believe he’s dedicated son giving up everything for his daddy.
👏🏼👏🏼👏🏼👏🏼👏🏼
THIS.  OP, his behavior is a red flag.  Romance scammers are absolutely a thing and operate offline as well.  They will often have a tragic backstory like this as to why they have no money.  The daughters very well could be in on it!

Consult an attorney and make 100% sure that he and his daughters have NO rights to your assets.
This is the exact reason we have no plans to marry.  
Tim doesn't want his debt attached to me, or my inheritance attached to him. We discussed this when I floated the idea of him moving in and have always been on the same page.
Forget him, be my sugar mommy pls
Not even cordial, just civil. 
I would also check the timeline. It seems they started warming up to OP right after they found out about the beach house
I would have brought it up with my father far sooner than they did, been civil to OP either way, and given a real apology when the truth came out.
Yes to all of this, except that they did not apologize. "Sorry you felt lonely during Christmas" is a version of "sorry you feel this way", and that is a classic non-apology. It takes zero accountability and places the blame on OP for feeling a certain way. Unless they give a genuine apology - and they could send a letter or e-mail or whatever through their father - I would say the more cynical take is probably the wisest one.
Also all kids find it difficult when a parent dies and the other parent replaces them and the new replacement straight up doesn't give a shit about your mom.
Exactly,  the optics were nothing to jump up and down about. And they moved in together really quickly.
They were mad he didn’t contribute towards their weddings while their mother needed cancer treatment.  
They were mad he bought a new comfy car that would allow him to visit them more frequently because he spent money on that instead of on them. 

They‘ve been greedy AHs towards their dad as well, they just hid it better.
I mean the reality IS cynical, the summation of events is not kind to them because they were factually rude. They were cold to her until they found out she had money. Then suddenly they feel so bad - but still can’t give a real apology anyway. 

They made assumptions and now those being wrong makes them look bad. That’s literally why you’re taught since birth not to do that - they’re usually not right and the fallout is worse than just not assuming the mean shit in the first place. 

Literally first thing they did when they learned it’s not dad who has the money was to suddenly want to be friendly after almost 3 years. You don’t get none of the consequences from that because you gave a halfass apology…
ITA with you. How would they even "get money" from the OP?
"Kids" they are ALL adults. That's the problem. Lots of assumptions, no proper discussions, not keeping an open mind to see if she makes dad happy. They did not handle this well at all. 

They were being greedy bastards. They held grudges cus they wanted wedding funds. 

And they can apologize without spending the summer at her beach house. What a convenient way to apologize, and get a free vacation too. Who thinks to stay at someone's house when you're not even close? Not even that, in bad terms with. Doesn't sound like a very genuine way to apologize.
Except the daughters have proven themselves to be greedy bastards.  Their “concern” wasn’t that dear old dad was squandering his money on some bimbo; it was “You have money for her but you didn’t pay for our weddings!”  Their “solution” to being wrong about OP was to invite themselves for a summer visit at her beach house. I think you’ve missed a few clues.
When my parents split I was wary of the first guy who cozied up to my mom too. She had her own business and was well off at that time. I was worried the new guy who seemed a bit childish to me was just in it for the money. He proved to be alright and they are together for nearly 20 years now. He is still bad with money. If he has money to spend he does. So my mom is basically gives him an allowance which sounds bad but he is working himself and would probably have more spending money if he wasn't in a relationship with my mother but he wouldn't be able to save up money.
They didn’t apologize. What grown ass children don’t confront their parents on something? They chose to ice her out, not talk to their dad about their concerns. To add insult to injury “I’m sorry you felt lonely at Xmas.” Lol. Ok.
I think it might be because they had no reason to like her. They thought their dad had money, so they were good to him. Now they find out she has money they want to be nice? There's motivation there.
Or they could have gotten new information that literally changed the situation 180 degrees lol
I think the “felt lonely” part is where they aren’t showing real remorse.  That’s just adding insult to injury, by implying that it wasn’t them, it’s just you and your irrational feelings.  They should have wanted to call you to apologize for being immature assholes and treating you badly.  It’s one thing to just be cordial.  It’s another thing to ignore you completely.  

I think you tell boyfriend that you are willing to do Xmas, but the second they treat you badly that you are hopping on a plane and he can drive home himself.  While there, if they don’t apologize properly (I’m sorry you felt that way is not a proper apology.  A proper apology involves accountability for their behavior.). You tell them that you love boyfriend and are willing to forgive, but will not forget how they treated you.  You tell them that you can understand why they may have not understood and thus been upset because you don’t like gold diggers either and would be pissed if they were trying to get money out of you.  (Cutting that off at the pass).  But, it wasn’t ok that they took their anger out on you instead of their dad, who is the correct person to have been mad at if they thought their assumptions were true.  *He* would have been the one who was trying to impress you instead of helping them.  That you would never treat anyone the way they treated you.  Given how they treated you, that while you are happy to be cordial, that you don’t feel comfortable trying to have a closer relationship outside the context of their dad.  Maybe over time that will change, but for now, they can just communicate with their dad.
One suggestion, when you meet them next, what if you do it one at a time and not together? I think you will get a better picture of each daughter separately vs together where they can support or influence the other.
OP I'm concerned they're only trying to warm up due to your money. Keep your distance. Keep your info safe as well. I don't like your partner either, his ego is more important to him than your honor. NTA
It sounds like they were still griefing. You two got together “quickly” in their eyes, so they tried to paint you as a villain so they wouldn’t be able to like you. Maybe give them a chance but be wary!
All I can say is protect your peace. My best wishes.
You know, if his daughters were really that annoyed that their dad didn’t pitch in for their wedding, I’m a little surprised Tim was able to keep the situation a secret throughout their engagements.  (I don’t have a point here, it’s just an observation).
Okay, I think you need to take their grief into account.  Think how hard it is to lose your mother.  It was a really brief period of time between her death and you getting together with him.  I think a lot of grieving daughters would be upset.

Yeah they were jerks but grief does that.  If they continue to be conciliatory then I would accept their apology and try for a warm relationship. 

I just want to also point out that it’s reasonable that they had suspicions of your motives, especially given that you are currently doing the same thing to them with your suspicion about their interest in your house.
2 years of mom's death after being shielded from how horrible her cancer was only for him to move 6 hours away with someone ten years younger than him after dating for a few months? Yeah, no wonder this family hates you. Frankly, Tim let them down as a parent.
I was wondering how long it had been since the mom's death. Yikes. You guys started dating a year and 5 months after she died. So, essentially a year and a half later. That means you were probably the very first person he dated (or at least let them know about) since their mom died. It was only 2 years after their mom died. I am going to say this nicely, but come on. You didn't see a problem with going to their Christmas only 2 years after their mom died??? A serious relationship only 2 years later. Yeah, I am early 30s, I could NOT handle that. I don't think you would have gotten a hi or goodbye. Holidays are sooooo hard when you lose a loved one, Christmas especially. They needed their dad to just be there for them. You should have stayed home. 


Then, you are almost 20 years younger. And a bartender. (Nothing wrong with that) but even you see how obviously you look like a gold digger. They thought you were using their dad. They thought "Here comes this young thing right after our mom died (only a year later!!!) And she is using our dad. They immediately move in together and he buys her a gigantic home moving out of the family home for her. (Which also had to be very hard on them!) And she just keeps using him. And now she is barging in on our Christmas so soon after losing mom" 


Come on. Don't drive a wedge. Which is what you will do if you don't try harder. They didn't talk to you... okay. They are willing to talk now. So, honestly, be an adult and forgive and forget. 
They can visit him all they want. Doesn't mean they should stay at the home of the person they disrespected for 2 years. You need boundaries OP.
You are putting your love for him above a desire to not see the kids - and that is awesome!
What does he bring to the table? 10 more years of active life and no savings. You are at completely different stage of life
They can rent a hotel.
Mate, you deserve someone who will love YOU. 
It very well could be that the daughters just could not move on from their mother's death and were worried you were a gold digger.

My concern is the wedding comments they made.

If they were worried you were after your husband's money/him spending so much on you (given the point of view), then they should have been more concerned for HIM. "Dad, we're worried OP is taking advantage of you" or anything along those lines. Instead, they made it about them, and that money they THOUGHT existed should've only been spent on them. That's a major red flag.

If you can arrange it, I'd discuss it with your husband about a family sit-down and lay everything on the table. That includes the fact that you two will never be married and that his debts and your inheritance will be separate. Their reaction to knowing they'll get nothing financially from you in the future (and, technically, inherit their father's debts when he dies if they're not gone by then) will give you the biggest answer you can get.

Concern for their father's debts, but happy to have someone who can support him? Hooray! It's just a horrible misunderstanding you all can try to work through.

Get pissy and make it all about money? 🚩🚩🚩🚩🚩

I say, NTA OP, your husband sucks a bit for his pride letting things escalate this far, and I'm glaring at those daughters with heavy skepticism.
Keep them at arms length. Tell them you can host Christmas next year. Their reaction will tell you everything.

Nta

Ps. Awesome username
NTA. Let Tim and his grown ass children do them. Their stank attitudes showed their real character.  You've seen it and shouldn't particularly give a damn about being warm and fuzzy with two brats. 

They didn't welcome you into their space for two years straight. Why the hell should you now welcome them into yours?

Do not let Tim give them your number.  Keep the same energy. If they visit your city, they should stay in a hotel. Access to a beach is usually free. I wouldn't go about making their life easier.

Their dad did what he had to while caring for his sick wife. He made the mistake of not telling them the truth about his finances.

Now that they know you're not a gold digger, all is well?  Hell no. Let Tim go see them for Christmas, and you do you. 

I wouldn't go near them. It's too soon, and they'll probably be falling all over themselves to be nice, now that they know that you have money. It will be such a fake situation. Why would you put up with that?
That's beautiful.
Are you sure your want to spend your youth taking care of this man and putting up his family? You're 42. When you're 50, and he gets sick, there will be pressure for you to take care of him. Do you want that? 


If i was those girls I would thanking my lucky stars that you were with him. Because you would have the constitution and time to take care of him, taking him apointments, surgeries and making sure that he takes his medicine, and I would have to do less. 
NTA. yea these kids are gold diggers that have some made up fantasy of their mom covering all their costs and their dad being a mooch.

they don’t respect the father or his wife they just want handouts now that they realize they were staring down the wrong goose and the one they’ve been kissing ass to, the dad, isn’t the one laying the golden eggs.

fuck them.
And a house near the beach.
Exactly. People on here making excuses for their bad behavior is bullshit. Their agenda is clear as day.
This.  This old guy is using you. And you're in love so that makes it easier. Disentangle your good, generous heart from this dysfunctional group.
Yes, yes, and yes.
Thank you, I was having a hard time seeing it from their perspective, but I am willing to admit you make good points. Especially if they had already made the assumption, and didn't have the context then the things Tim said just fueled the assumption.
They “seem very apologetic” because OP they said they were sorry she felt “lonely at Xmas”??

That is not apologetic at all. A *real* apology would have been “We are so sorry we misjudged the situation. Our behaviour towards you was unacceptable. We didn’t have all the information, which is not an excuse, but we will learn from this and not make this mistake again. Is there anything we can do to move forward in a positive direction?” 

“Sorry you felt lonely at Christmas” is just their half-assed way of trying to get in good graces with someone with money.
I disagree with everyone sucks here.

He: did NIT tell the truth, little white lies are still...lies.

The girls: ASSUMED they knew what was going on and instead of looking into it, they made an ass outta them and their families. Dad, husband's, any kids etc. Because "We think dad is spoiling some strumpet"

you. Really didn't do anything wrong. It were aware he told them it's your house, you know they were told you don't have to work. If you never actually were asked the reasons behind this, not your fault the made an ass out them and umption.


So, no. Not everyone sucks. I would however, tell them if they want to visit you, they can get a hotel.
Even if they were misled they’re adults who chose to be passive aggressive instead of having a conversation. Op is not at fault in any way. And of course they’re sorry after finding out she has money, don’t be naive.
I don’t really see how they could’ve been fed misinformation. Reading the original post, I didn’t see anything as a “certain way” at all. Then reading OPs responses confirmed that.

He referred to it as OPs house numerous times. 

He said him moving in with OP really helped HIM out. 

They’re grown ass women that made an assumption about OP based on what? The fact that she’s a bartender? They’re entitled, judgemental assholes. They heard what they wanted to hear, and now that they know OP has money they wanna be a happy family? Nope, absolutely not.
I don’t think it’s ok that it looked a certain way to the girls. They seemed to be pretty entitled with money that was (in their imaginations) given to their dad after their mother’s death. That’s not ok either. It sounds like these 2 girls had literal years to inquire about their fathers well being and understand the lay of the land, but chose not to. 

Then, they were nasty to the woman that ensures his happiness m, since they are all living their lives over 6 hours away. I wouldn’t want to get to know these two women, either. Who treats their retirement age father like a cash cow, instead of a respected elder and friend?

NTA
People seem to be assuming they were mainly angry about the money because they were concerned about their inheritance but its possible/likely they were also worried about their father being taken advantage of - he's getting older and has only so many working years, if you had essentially honey trapped a grieving widower he could have been seriously screwed. 

Also if you don't have a good relationship with your parents you have no idea the extent to which their mother's death completely devastated them. Imagine losing Tim and your best friend and your dog, except much worse as youve known them your entire life and they are one of the only people who loved you unconditionally. Oh and they watched her suffer for years before she died. Even their weddings were tinged with sadness because it was probably very obvious she wouldn't live much longer. They are probably only in their twenties/thirties and were expecting their mother would be around to help them with their own kids etc. 

Grief can make people act very strangely. You don't have to be best friends with them but can at least accept an apology if they offer a heartfelt one, be civil to them and take things from there.
I see the points you're making but 

>they may have been misled 

is wildly overstating the daughters' case, imo. 

They also saw what their mother suffered. They just "assumed" there was life insurance. They just "assumed" that their father who'd supported his wife through all that would just bounce back and maybe apologize for not paying for their wedding. 

if they were old enough to get married, imo they were old enough to be involved in their mother's estate. they were old enough to check in with their father about his grief and mourning, and snidely asking if it helps to have his pipes cleared by his bimbo bartender who's a decade younger, doesn't count.
Nahh If the daughters were decent people, they would have treated op with respect from the beginning but decided to be prejudice and treat op like shit. They had opportunities to open up and have actual conversation. Could have all been aired out from the start.
I don't agree. Girls never thought about costs for mom's treatments. Never asked about insurance. They just thought money is there and eventually will go to them. Then they got pissy for dad buying house for new wife, new car. They didn't listen what dad was telling. Dad said "her house" they hear "i bought her a house". Dad said "she didn't had to bartender" they hear "she doesn't have to work i will pay for her lifestyle". Girls weren't just mad at OP, they were active on shunning her and isolating her on family events. They weren't misinformed. They had their own ideas and acted like ideas are 100% correct. They weren't interested in their father's life, never asked the right questions. Sure, he was trying to protect them and he is part to blame. But they didn't listen what he was saying until he spilled everything when bubble bursted. Now, when they know that father is a leech and not OP, and that op is actually well situated financially, they want to be family. OP is right about not giving them any credit, they now act like leeches. They didn't made effort to know her. They went straight to accusations road.

OP, ignore them and their efforts. You're right about their new actions not being genuine. Genuine was their hate. If I were you, I'd reevaluate my relationship with bf. What i see next is your bf to pressure you to be a bigger person. Where was that same effort from him to make them to accept you as member of the family?

Edit: replaced word marriage. They are not married, which is even better, OP can ditch him easily.
No, the daughters are making an effort to have free accommodations near the beach next summer.
They have no excuse for treating someone like that even if they didn’t know the truth. They didn’t bother trying to get to know her at all after over 2 years and went back to acting like assholes after being called out the first time. So no. OP isn’t shitty for not seeing it from their perspective. E S H is a garbage take
I'm sorry you felt lonely isn't an apology that takes responsibility for the actions taken. We're sorry our behavior made you feel lonely is an apology that does. They are also 6 hours away so the relationship is going to be on the light side by default because of that and the past issues. Nobody that's been treated like shit for years is going to be motivated to FaceTime or whatnot to to establish closeness with the people who treated her like crap and have yet to truly apologize to her. They have amends to make for their actions because even if what they thought about her was true, she's a golddigger, that doesn't give them the right to treat her like crap as she did nothing wrong to them. They weren't being protective of their father, they were angry they weren't getting their share of his perceived wealth. 
I don’t necessarily think that anyone lied. I think this all comes to down misunderstanding and assumptions. They assumed that you were using their dad. He assumed that he had dropped enough hints for them to understand that wasn’t the case. Prior to your own involvement they saw their mom get sick and pass while their father hid all of his troubles from them for their piece of mind. 
  I honestly would have thought the same thing they did, given the information they had. 
   I can’t blame him either, he was shielding his kids before you.
  Nobody is the AH yet. 
      Give it a chance next summer.
You sound like you have yourself together. Trust that
You're right, they didn't know there was money to be made from not treating OP like shit. We're sorry you "felt lonely" isn't an apology. It's very telling they now suddenly want to visit during summer. Who doesn't want a free vacation at the beach. Their dad now has proper transportation (funded by OP) so he can continue visiting them, they don't need to come into OP's space.
"needed it". If you want a 30K wedding, then pay for it yourself. You can always just do a 10K wedding.

Everything about their behavior screams entitled and self-serving.
Sounds like the person most at fault here is Tim. But everyone could move past it if they acknowledge there were misunderstandings all around and apologize. 

Do you really want a vendetta against your partner'skids for the next 20 or 30 year? Have a real conversation with then. Express your hurt. Ask for an apology. Don't sweep it under the rug. Actually deal with it and move past it.
They didn’t go off on him for being with a woman that “wasn’t mom” either…
Excellent observation
This. OP, this hits the nail on the head. Appearances are very important to this man. He may \*say\* it's about shielding his daughters, but it sounds like he wants to be viewed as a big shot while having an open hand behind his back to you and collecting your cash. Tread carefully. He's what my middle-aged friends and I call a "project." None of us want any project men.
Exactly! He’s as big of a problem as his entitled daughters.
Thank you. I do think I need to have a word to Tim about his pride a bit after all these comments.  
I love him a lot a lot. I've probably been a little too easy going.
>prevented their husbands from making even small talk with me by talking over me.

Sounds like the husbands were trying to be polite when they got steamrolled by their wives. The husbands don't sound like they deserve to be included in the ESH. Even if they had incorrect assumptions, the daughters were super rude. Absent some very heartfelt apologies, OP is right to not want to be friends with them. Maybe with the husbands though.
Id be cautious to say they're actually trying to make amends. Mostly because "you're giving all this money to her and didn't give a dime for our weddings" then they heard she's the one with all the money...now they want to be nice. I'd suspect they're mad at her for assumptions of gold digging, now they're literally gold digging. They're not making a complete 180 like that without ulterior motives.
Let them visit, but don't let them stay in your house. They can get a hotel that they pay for themselves.
> That’s a privilege that has to be earned after at least 2-3 years of treating you right.

Fuck yes
BUT, if that’s all they want, why didn’t they visit when they thought Dad was paying for the house?? I think they had no clue Dad was broke and the new GF was helping him
Love this idea. "Hey, anytime you guys want to come enjoy the beach, let us know! There's actually a couple really nice AirBNBs nearby that would probably be really comfortable for you, and maybe we can check out some of our favorite restaurants!"
I agree with this. 

Personally I would start out a little more harsh and the first year (or more) I would only let them come visit during the daytime. They can get a hotel or air b&b to stay in. That way they aren’t taking advantage of OP’s financial situation (like they were so afraid she was doing to their father). You can always invite them to stay with you in the future if the first couple visits go well, but there is no need for OP to provide free accommodation in order for them to visit their father.
OP needs to read this reply.
I wouldn't offer beach accommodations for 2 more years.  OP needs to determine if the kids are sincere in their "apologies".
Tim and started dating January of 2022.  
I know him before that as someone who come into the bar where I work. He travelled to my location for work once a month to make sure the math was mathing etx  
He moved in with me August of 2022 (yes fast, I know but it worked) and then December 2022 was the 1st Xmas I went with him to see the girls. We had been dating 11 months by that time.  
Xmas 2023 was the second attempt at going with him to see the girls.  
Tim did talk to the girls about how they behaved after 2022 Xmas, about a month later after tensions had cooled and that's when they apologized and gave the excuse of struggling with another woman being with their Dad.
OP stated in a comment that they started dating 2022. Considering Christmas is in a few months, I'm guessing that this would have been their third Christmas together and a pretty recent conversation. I don't blame OP for not being forgiving just yet. She hasn't been given a real apology. If they were to do that and make strides to actually create a relationship, it might be forgivable. But I'd also have a hard time cozying up to someone who has been rude to me for years. It would probably take years to repair the damage done.
He was so upset about the whole argument. When it got done he was a bit shell-shocked that his girls would act that way.
But then immediately invited themselves to her house in the summer because it's near a beach. They didn't even think about apologizing to her first. They went from being horrid to trying to use her resources.
Yah.  Agree.  If they saw dad as successful banker and he did nothing to pop that illusion then. I’d be worried about gold digger bartender as well.  Love that you’re the rich one.  🥰
When I left my ex, he moved back in with his mother. I get it. I moved back in with mine until I could get my feet back under me. There's no shame in that. Just be upfront about it. But his "role" that he was committed to wouldn't allow for that.

She was older, in her 70s and living on social security, and he was telling everybody that he totally could have gotten his own place, but that he moved back in with her because she needed help paying the bills and keeping the house up so, being a good son, he was there to do just that. He played the role completely, of being the doting, loving son caring for his elderly mother, and his siblings were so relieved that it didn't fall to them that they didn't ask questions. But it was as genuine as when he played the doting, loving husband to me.

He spent every dime he made on booze, cigarettes, partying, and just wasteful bullshit, leaving her responsible for now trying to support two people on her very meager income. He certainly wasn't paying child support. And he got away with it for a while because nobody else had a good look at their finances, except for me.

He was still using our joint checking account that I had abandoned to him for all his finances. I had the log in info and could see all of his income and outgo and that in the year he lived with her that I could still see his income he paid exactly \*one\* electric bill.

It wasn't until the house they were living in got foreclosed on that his family finally realized he had NOT been helping her but bleeding her dry. And as soon as that happened, he just washed his hands of it and moved away with his new, wealthy girlfriend he was already lovebombing into believing that he had been paying everything \*but\* the mortgage, and he had no idea his mother hadn't been paying it because she was hiding it from him.

You need to keep a close eye on that relative this man is pretending to take care of. You \*need\* to advocate for him, because nobody in their right mind leaves a vulnerable elderly person under the care of someone with a history of financial malfeasance, no matter how good a performance of reformed sinner they're putting on. 

Call your state's elder abuse hotline and find out how and who to report to so that somebody can investigate and get that liar's hands out his daddy's pockets.
Consult your lawyer and make sure you don’t live in a common-law state.
Be careful. You’ve given him a lot and it’s a red flag that his main concern about spending Christmas without you is lack of a second driver for his own comfort.
Check with your lawyer about cohabiting together. To ensure the laws where you live don't have common law.
Also, make sure you're careful with money - make sure Tim isn't taking advantage of you as well (for his girls sake). It'll be a slippery slope. Once you allow Tim and his daughters something. More and more will be demanded from you
They asked for her number to apologize, and she refused (I get that reaction). But I’ll agree they should’ve given her a chance. 

I can’t speak to what they’ve been through, or what feelings might have driven them to not give her a fair shake from the start. But I can imagine. 

I see from this comments section that few people assume the best in others - and given the circumstances I’d err on giving them grace. 

Hopefully they learn something from the experience about not being dicks.
Or they found out their dad had been lying to them and are just now understanding how much OP has been helping him and are grateful? This sub is so cynical. They thought she was using their dad for money and draining their inheritance. Then they found out she’s actually been helping their dad. They could actually just feel guilty and are embarrassed about how they treated her.
That's how I see it, too. They just lost their mom 2 years before first meeting OP. Considering all of the circumstances, comments, etc. Just comes off as a genuine misunderstanding and daughters were just looking out after their pops, but daughters are immature albeit understandable as they're in their like mid 20s if I'm not mistaken... like okay they weren't so quick to open up to OP and conversate with OP at Christmas. Did the daughters know about the girlfriend well before Christmas, or were they just finding out a couple weeks before?

imo, I'd let them come over to the house on the beach and even stay there, assuming it's just for like a weekend or week and overall forgive them after they give an apology.. if OP has them over and they still haven't apologized or anything then that'd be the last time I'd have them over until they apologized. If they're wondering what happened then just communicate how you feel, ie. didn't like the way you were treated at the Christmas' and feel like you deserve an apology. You didn't even get one after having them over and feel disrespected

Anyway, if they apologized I'd forgive them, but wouldn't forget. I'd just be wary of any continuous patterns/red flags
I don't think that's on OP. Their father was the one who invited her for Christmas and the one who should know his children best. It's not the woman's job to read a situation with grown children she doesn't know and choose to turn down an invitation.
The speed at which these men move on from their spouse’s deaths is disgusting.
Yup!  Hotel or they will be down every freaking weekend
You don't think OP's partner loves her? (no judgement genuine question)
Are they apologetic or are they cosying up to you now knowing you’re the meal ticket not their father? 

Even if you choose to forgive, I’d be maintaining a healthy cynicism about their intentions at least for a while.

Edit: typo
I don't understand how your partner allowed this to happen. 

Pride is a bullshit excuse for his daughters treating you like crap. He has the responsibility to protect you from their attitude as well as resolve conflict as he is the person who has a relationship with them and with you. 

He has been disrespectful to you along with his daughters by refusing to confront them. Even if he didn't want to share his financial situation, he should have shut their attitudes down the moment it happened. Not finally dealing with it *after* you had enough. 

He sounds like a mooch who benefits from this relationship and your money and generosity, while he does fuck all to confront his daughters about their contempt. So it's no wonder they now want to take advantage of your situation. The apple doesn't often fall far from the tree.
Yeah- the comments he made could definitely be perceived as him blowing money to support you (while simultaneously not supporting his own daughters). 

I’d try to develop a relationship with them- even if it’s just a little one- but maintain boundaries with gifts or financial support. I think most people would be hurt if they thought their only living parent would choose supporting new partner over them, and it sounds like he did very little to correct that perception.
I agree you could grant them a little grace, but also feel icky about the complete turnaround they've taken. 

Being that they were so obsessed with his money when they thought he had any, to the point of not even trying to get to know you... I dunno man. Maybe visit them one more time and see how it goes? I wouldn't want them in my space before the air is cleared between you.
I think you should still give it some time before being super welcoming to them. They still owe you major apologies.

My parents divorced and while I was upset about the reason why, I've been happy for both my parents to be in the happy relationships they are now in. I'm not super close to both their partners, but I'm always courteous and appreciative of them for how they make my parents happy.

If these two daughters are married themselves, they should be mature enough to be happy for their dad's happiness with you, even before this realization. I can't help but think part of why they are warming up to you so quickly if because they realized you have money (and their dad doesn't).

So I'd accept the warming up to some degree, but it's not on you to forgive immediately. They need to apologize to you and you need to decide if their apologies are legitimate and adequate enough or if you need more time before forgiving them. I wouldn't hold onto this forever (for your own sake as well), but rushing forgiveness doesn't seem like a good idea either.
That assumption was clearly inaccurate. How have these two women been married and lost their mother after her 3rd battle with cancer managed to get by without registering how financially devastating it was for their father and mom during that time. Sheltered or not, that has a devastating impact. 

How did they not appreciate that there was someone bringing joy into their father’s life while they were living theirs 6 hours away? What was he supposed to do, drain his bank accounts so they could take a vacation, and then go sit in a corner somewhere?

They’re self absorbed enough that they can eat their words. Be civil, by all means, but they’ve shown what they do to the people they love. Not just dad, but talking over their husbands, because they don’t like who they’re talking to is just rude.

These women are the type you want distance from. And you should consider enacting an ironclad care plan, lest they box you out of the care and treatment of you partner if he gets sick. 

And do something to protect your physical self and finances if the same ever happened to you. Your husband has a blind spot when it comes to them. Don’t set yourself up for being vulnerable to them if you can’t take care of yourself. They’d be shopping with your cards and living in your house the first chance they got.
Never assume malice for something that can easily be attributed to ignorance.
I think you should 

1 invite them over in the worst season for the beach or if you do invite them during beach season make sure you are always suggesting activities to do and if they treat you as free accommodation and spend the entire time at the beach or refuse to visit in winter you will know where you stand.

2 sit down with both daughters and tell them EXCATLY how their treatment of you has made you feel and had they actually been mature enough to get to know you then none of this would have happened and you wouldn't be seeing them as spoilt bratts who are only talking to you now that they have learnt that their father has no money and you do, thus acting like gold diggers.

If after all that they show true remorse for their behaviour and lack of respect  then you can start over and build a new relationship with them. If they get too defensive and the attitude starts back up/continues then stick by your word of not having them around but not coming between your partner and his children.
Unless they were minor children when their mother was sick, I have a hard time imagining adults who wouldn't have at least some idea that medical bills can be financially crippling. 


They said he didn't give them any money for their weddings. I have to imagine that had to tell them something. It sounds like he's gotten this idea that he has to protect them from every single thing which in the end has hurt you. 


I don't agree with people saying that it was all right to treat you like trash because they thought you were the gold digger. It would have cost them nothing to at least be civil to you during the brief time they would have seen you at christmas. 


Now that you've suddenly been forgiven when you've done nothing wrong with not change my opinion of them. They're spoiled and rude and unkind. And either they're completely clueless or they enjoyed the blissful unawareness of their father's struggles. 
honestly, if i saw my dad get with a younger woman with a seemingly huge finance gap i wouldnt be the friendliest either, bc id worry she was taking advantage of him, or it would hurt to see my father with a new person after so long. be cautious, get to know them, see what kind of people they are for real this time. dont go giving money out, but try to give them a fair shake before you start drawing hard lines
I'm sorry, but none of Tim's or your financial information is any of their business. Even if he did use insurance money to buy you a car,  that's his perogative and none of their business. His children were upset because you were possibly getting money they thought they should get, and now that they know daddy is broke, they want to be friends with the person who has the money. They are going to use you to get as much as they can.
Absolutely this. OP is totally justified keeping her distance until they offer some real sincerity 
Yeah. They insulted her when they didn’t think she had anything to offer them, regardless of whether that was based purely in their own assuming, or from husband misleading. Still, they treated her like crap, and now that they know she had money, they want to make nice. 
>He: did NIT tell the truth, little white lies are still...lies.

Dude take a step back, not telling your children that you are in dip shit financial state because you spend every dime trying to keep their late mother alive to see their wedding isn't a lie nor something that should be held against him.
And if they want to step a foot onto your property, eat a crumb of food you have paid for or made they have to actually give a real intentional thought out apology regarding their behavior.
Thank you for saying this because I am BAFFLED at how anyone could even remotely believe OP is TA in the slightest. The daughters need to grow up and the partner needs to get his act together. Allowing your adult children to openly disrespect and exclude your chosen partner is wild business. I'd be reconsidering the whole relationship in a situation like this. The lack of respect is appalling.
What did he lie about? He didn’t tell the whole truth but I don’t think he should feel he has to tell his children their mother’s illness decimated him financially. Other than that it seems he’s told the truth but didn’t know what they were assuming so didn’t know he had to correct their assumptions. Once he found out what they were thinking he corrected them.
Yeah, I don’t blame op for not being excited about them “warming up” I wouldn’t be too keen on the people who immediately thought the very worst of me 
Well considering he's poor as a church mouse. His retirement age is pushed out quite a bit. He's only 59, retirement is still 6+ years away.  Let's not put him in that rocking chair yet.
THANK YOU. Yes, it could be about the money. But it could also simply be that they are remorseful for their actions now that they understand OP isn’t taking advantage of a grieving, lonely man by draining his money to the point that he hasn’t been able to financially help them in any regard. It’s not about the money, it’s about the motive and the feeling that they came second.
They still sound greedy.  You read how rude they were to Op?  

I've lost a few family this year and not once did grief make me act so strange/rude to people like Tim's daughters.  They were nasty.  That's not grief.  

They want a cash grab of her money.  Not buying it.
Except they didnt apologize. Why should OP accept their bs now that they know she's the one funding daddy's lifestyle
The biggest thing I'm taking from this is that Tim and I need to have a firm conversation about his pride.
Exactly!
His pride in general, but also — the way he treats his daughters has some specific implications for you, too.

They were young adults when their mother was sick, but still adults. He must have lied to them pretty consistently, even if mostly by omission, to keep them from knowing how deep in debt he was. And even years later, he kept concealing such a major change to his lifestyle.

So what does this mean if you’re together for years or decades, until his health inevitably starts to decline? Will he insist on lying to them about that, too? Will the entire burden of elder care fall to you, his significantly-younger partner, because he continues to think of his adult children as people who should be shielded from the knowledge that their father needs help?
Tim had a number of hard years when his wife way dying. He was going broke and he was desperately trying to [take your pick] protect his children from the reality of his financial situation or preserve his own image to the world as a successful banker who had everything under control. It sorta sounds like he’s been straightforward/honest with you about his financial situation while still being *misleading* to his daughters. Maybe that’s to his credit. Or maybe not. It’s like the old story about the blind men describing an elephant—each can only describe the portion they’ve touched.  If you chose to keep your relationship with Tim, warts and all, you may have to consider setting your own hurt feelings about the daughters’ former hostility to the side while still maintaining enough autonomy to not fall into being love bombed because they now know you have a trust fund.  From personal experience, I can say it’s challenging being around someone who presents distorted perceptions about reality and my having to constantly check my perceptions against his.
Let them prove they’ve changed first. Their past behavior shows they need to earn trust.
And if they decide NOT to visit if they can't freeload, then their dad will be welcome to visit them.
This. At least the first 1-2 times they visit like this, this is how it should go. It is your house anyway, they know it now, and they know they screwed up. Whether they genuinely changed their minds or they did it out of financial interest or convenience, if they want to be treated like (your) family, they need to prove they deserve it first.
They told their dad it was about you not being their mom. I can see how he assumed that when they were the ones to say it.

Then when they brought up you taking advantage he told them it's him who is being taken care of.

But I wouldn't be quick to warm either. I would hold back and be polite but wait for their actions over the next year or two
I have read all of your responses and most of the comments. Are you totally sure Tim isn’t using you?

You give him a place to live free while he looks like the Money Man to his daughters and others. What exactly do you get out of this? 

You’re a young woman at 42 who shouldn’t be putting up with these toxic situations. You can find a man who will truly love you and marry you. Not one who is broke, allows his daughters to have the wrong idea about you and flaunts your lifestyle as his own. He’s much older than you and you may be a caretaker very soon for man that won’t even marry you. You have martyred yourself. Why???
When did their mom pass?
well if you want to keep going on with the relationship, he needs to be honest with his kids, they are old enough and he is broke enough to be transparent, he is also stubborn because well... he is getting old, that happens with age, maybe he is not ready to accept the "look in the sugar santa for my bimbo bartender wife!!" (to be honest it sound like a romcom for a little over the middle age dudes)

he need to accept that, that you became not only his romantic partner and emotional support but also his financial support and if you are cool with it (you are a 42 dating a 59 so I would assume that the dude is really a great partner to you)

I would try to have a relationship with them if this is the case but he also need to accept that all of you are F'ing adults and that you can be cordial, civil and in the future even friendly if they (daughters) put the effort on it

also he need to acknowledge that he didn't help them, not because he didn't wanted to and that he didn't replace them with you, he didn't help them because he wasn't able to do it, he need to make that fact clear and hope they understand, sometimes "the heart is willing but the flesh is weak", in his case, his wallet instead of the flesh

and to end this, you seem to really like the man, you saw something on him that drawn yourself to him, so I really hope that your feelings are right, I hope you are really happy with him and I really hope that this works for you in the end is that's what you want, best of luck to you!!!
Sorry if you've already said this somewhere else but what year did their mum pass away and how old are they? Also did they grow up in the house he lost? Trying to understand where their heads may have been at grieving wise.
I don't think they're being nice now because they're greedy and want access to your assets. 

I think they previously believed you were a gold digger - they got set straight in that - and *that's* when they realized you actually **love** their father. 

If my dad was dating someone who I thought was a good digger, I'd be upset because i want my dad to be *loved* not be *used*. I would not get close to someone if I thought they were using my dad... but I would want to get to know someone who loved my dad.
Already you have become the "purse" for Tim, soon you will become the "nurse" as well. Think it through.
Personally I don't know if I'd ever be willing to cozy up to someone who only started treating me like a person after learning I have money. You could never be sure that their motivation is to genuinely form a bond with you as opposed to simply getting close in hopes for an inheritance.
I think at this point you can't know for sure their true intentions. As someone said before, you don't have to pay anything for them in order to open up about developing a cordial relationship with them for the sake of your relationship with Tim. You seem like a well grounded level headed person, you are right that this might be grief talking for them. 
Honestly, I would be open to forgiveness and a cordial relationship while still being attentive of the red flags while you get to know them better. But more important I would have an honest conversation with Tim about your boundaries and of course you require an apology from his kids, as someone who has been dealing for 10 years with step sons I can tell you the key is that you both are on the same page and the same team about it, whichever your decision is that.
NTA. Yes there might be reasons why they behaved that way, but deep down they seem concerned about money. I’ve learned the hard way that where money is concerned, you can’t be too careful. Yes don’t completely cut them off, don’t be rude or unpleasant. No need to argue at all, and you can watch them to see how they now behave. Even have a friendly relationship. You need boundaries though, so of course you can come visit, I know some great hotels etc. I wouldn’t let them stay with me, especially since they’re all for it when they found out it’s a beach house! All good when they see you have money. Please be careful. Please look after what’s yours and keep it that way. Your doubts are valid and I’d feel exactly the same. You’re trying to understand where they’re coming from, but they didn’t sit down with you and give you that chance did they. I can’t explain myself very well, but I don’t see this in their favour.
Thank you for your response. Where I’m at right now is hoping the suddenly ‘dedicated’ son gets arrested by the FBI (which is still investigating) before he siphons off what cash his daddy has saved up and convinces him to sign over real estate & stocks that would have been divided equally per the will between two sons. His daddy has already put this son’s mortgage and truck payment on auto pay out of the dad’s checking account (2/3s of the dad’s monthly pension & other income). The PRESENTATION is very convincing and if i didn’t know what I know, I might fall for it - it’s hard not to.
I don’t think she is in the US so doesn’t have to worry about that.
Common law doesn't just automatically make you married, you still have to present as married in public for that to go into effect.
They feel guilty and embarrassed.. so they ask to stay at her beach house??? Is that really the next step?
If they felt guilty or embarrassed, then a genuine apology would have been given. Sorry you were lonely isn't even an apology. Call people cynical, but if the shoe fits...
Then they would have actually made a decent apology if this was the case. They gave a non apology and expect it to be enough. 
we are adults. when you wrongfully  treat someone like shit & understand that you misinterpreted the situation, you’re supposed to sincerely apologize at the very least. you’re so focused on defending these girls that you’re throwing common sense out the window.
All they cared about was money, not their father’s happiness. All their father cared about was saving face in front of his daughters, not how they treated OP. Being cynical is better than wearing rose-coloured glasses and being taken advantage of.
This thread is spot on. They lost their mother and then literally thought their dad was denying them an inheritance. The apologies are awkward because it’s an awkward situation, they may well be wanting to fix things but are now navigating the fact their dad lied to them, and the fact they screwed up because of it. OP should give them a chance to see whether their actions line up with their apology, there’s really only so much you can do from six hours away to make amends. And honestly… two years isn’t a long time in terms of grieving a parent, I can understand seeing your dad move on is going to make you a little frosty to the newcomer anyway. 

It’s an ESH situation. Dad lead the kids to believe their financial situation was completely backwards and didn’t set them straight for their sake *or OP’s*. Daughters were obviously rude, regardless of being misinformed or not. OP, lightly so, for not trying to empathise with the daughters and essentially issuing husband with an ultimatum.
The whole concept of "draining *their* inheritance" screams of entitlement. 

If they thought their father was doing well financially and bought himself a nice house and a nice car, why should they be upset? 

Furthermore, treating his partner like shit seems to be motivated by bitterness that their inheritance might be further diluted.

And one day when they realize that it is HER that would hold the keys to that inheritance, the half assed apology appears?

These daughters have that inheritance on their mind over everything else (including the relationship with the father).

OP should keep some distance and possibly freeze them out of her money (i.e. freeze her partner out of any inheritance), let everyone know that that's the case, and then assess their behavior towards her.
If I'm gone, I'd rather everyone in my life appreciates how fickle life is and moves on quickly.  Yes I want to have mattered, but live for me don't mope for me. Find love, enjoy the time you have, because nothing is promised.
Honestly I’m impressed he stayed. Most leave the 1st mention of cancer. Anyone with common sense knows putting 2 kids thru collage & weddings is enough to break you financially. Plus 3 rounds of chemo & hospice unless your damn near a millionaire your broke af. It’s hard as hell to even get life ins policy with a preexisting condition.
I honestly don't. If you love someone, you want them happy, you want them cared for, you want them to be in good relationship with the rest of your "love circle" (friends, family, etc). 


This guy did NOT care the his daughters were purposefully shitting on the OP during Christmas, he only said anything to straighten up the situation when the daughters started on him. 


That's not love. 
Yeah they’re upset because they thought there was life insurance money that should go towards their weddings but instead he bought a car for himself and they twisted it to be that he bought it to impress his girlfriend? 

They don’t sound concerned their dad is being taken advantage of, they sound entitled af. Girlfriend is right to be wary.
To me the timing feels - off.  
Tim says his girls wouldn't do that. Cosey up to me for money and that this turn around is because they are grateful to me for helping their Father.  
He might be right, he knows them so much better than me but again... I've got a pretty good gut instinct about people when it come to money.  
Then again I have been wrong.  
Its hard to know.

As you can see I'm thinking myself around in circles, part of why I came to reddit.
This was my concern, only for the projection factor of I watched it happen in my family. There are still many people who aren't cold hearted like that, but there's still a number that are
[removed]
I was wondering when somebody would say this! You have made a very convenient life for him - where he doesn't have to worry about finances, etc., but allowed his kids to be rude to you. He should have talked to them & cleared this up after that first Christmas. I would not have gone back for a second Christmas after that. But how nice he has it for you to help him with the driving! And then getting him another car, so his back is okay. He sounds like a huge mooch who didn't have a problem with how his kids treated you until it became an issue for you.
  He is the AH.
This! I don’t think OP has clued in yet that she has a bf problem. She’s with a hobo sexual. Footing all the bills while he’s using her money to prop himself up around his kids. All the while expecting her to put up with his kids poor treatment of her, ignoring her legitimate concerns and now trying to set his kids up to be a couple more mouths for her to “feed” with the request to start using her house as their summer vacation home.
He also only wanted her to come with him for Xmas so that she could drive when his back hurts! This man sounds awful and is using OP to get out of debt
Thank you, my thoughts exactly
I think this is it. Assuming they aren’t the leeches type, it seems very normal that the daughters will react this way. OP doesn’t seem very empathetic to the fact that they have lost their mother and their father is off with some bartender looking like he’s spending all his money on the new girl - and the new girl is benefitting from the fact that their mother died. I could be wrong and the daughters absolutely now see that she’s moneybags, but then that’s yet to be seen.
Idk why people just think it’s about money. Apparently they believed he was buying OP a house, a car, and financing her, while he simultaneously wasn’t helping his own daughters at all when they needed it. It’s basically saying “I choose this new woman and her wants and needs over my own children.” You don’t have to be obsessed with money for that message to hurt.
I think the feelings are different if one parent died. A divorce ultimately means the parent was unhappy. But death doesn't and takes one parent away completely. 


However otherwise I agree with you 
What would your reaction be if you found out your dad was the one leeching off the younger woman instead of what you thought? How would you correct the situation?
You’re 100% right about that. 

But, it’s really greedy and self absorbed of them to assume any money is due to them at their and at his age. At 59, unless he’s got millions kicking around, the kids should be talking about finances as a family for planning purposes or staying entirely out of the picture.
If OP was indeed poor bartender in loving relationship with banker, would it be OK to treat her horribly? It is about money.
So have that conversation with Tim - sounds to me like from the outside looking in with unclear facts his daughters made assumptions that Tim didn’t correct, and I personally see how they got to those assumptions (age gap, career difference, secrecy about financial challenges, mother passed and thinking there was a payout)
and everyone's lack of communication.  

Everyone just assuming this and that.  It took an argument and big emotions for everyone to just say what needed to be said.   

You may not intend to marry Tim, but if you want to have a life with him long-term then you need to make peace with his daughters.
This is the right takeaway OP.  I’m sorry his daughters treated you like that, but they were misled by their dad (not out of malice… probably just because he felt embarrassed/ashamed that he is struggling financially) and I completely understand why they reached the conclusions they did based on what they were told. Honestly, I probably would’ve thought the same thing.

I think you should talk to them. They may genuinely feel really bad for treating you poorly and want to make amends. If they apologize — and you can tell they’re being sincere — give them a chance. Hell, you might even end up having a great relationship with them and all be a family together. That would be an amazing outcome.
100 percent.  He kind of threw you under the bus.
I think she had cancer like 6 times (or for 6 years?). So it probably started when they were young teens. Growing up with a dying mother… that’s tough.
I think the only thing that changed is they found out OP has money and the big house, and daddy is broke and always will be.   They're just after the money.
Regardless, I would make sure that OP spends NO money on them. They are not her responsibility, and if they genuinely want a relationship they will not ask for monetary privileges (like staying at her beach house ).

My guess is they see OP as $$ signs.
Why would she *marry* someone with known financial issues and no way of fixing them on his own? She really doesn’t need to inherit his debts.
Maybe it’s OP that won’t marry him.
It makes sense that he tried to protect them from the stress of finances while their mother was dying.  It make zero sense that he wouldn’t tell them later, especially when they were getting married and he couldn’t contribute to their weddings.  He likely hurt them by seemingly not wanting to contribute rather than being completely incapable of contributing. That’s where he went from a caring father to a man who wants to keep up appearances for his own sake.  OP came into that situation, and he kind of set her up to fail by not being completely truthful with his daughters.  It’s possible he truly loves OP as well, but it’s possible to use someone you love.  It is 100% true that OP has been used by him to keep up appearances.
I kept wondering about that.

If my mom died and my dad brought any woman to Christmas in a year or less I wouldn't be ready to deal with that. If it was at my house I would say I'm really sorry and I understand if you don't want to come but I would really love to have you here and I'm not ready yet. 

You can't control other people but I don't think it's unreasonable to say that it would be unbelievably difficult to have your first Christmas without your mother be with another woman there.

The truth is that partners you have chronically ill loved ones who die have usually done a lot of grieving while that person is still alive. The kids it feels like a slap in the face and an immediate replacement, even if they are grown. 

For all I know she could have come to their Christmas several years after the mom passed away. But if she's avoiding the question it doesn't bode well that that's the case


Update: Wife died around June of 2020, Xmas with the daughters was 2023. They owe her a very sincere apology, & her boyfriend needs to actively correct and disinformation about her & get a handle on his pride. Sacrificing your partner's reputation and well-being for your pride is crappy.
The more OP omits that information the more critical it seems
>someone who only started treating me like a person after learning I have money

It may be they started treating her nicely when they realised she wasn't scamming their dad. I can't imagine I'd be friendly with someone who was taking advantage of a relative.

It may not be related to the fact that she had money per se and that they want an inheritance, more that she isn't being an asshole and her having money proves that
Here's me, gleefully thinking I'll avoid all the "step-kid" drama dating someone whose kids are grown and married. More fool me!

I am leaning towards the idea of cautiously getting to know them after reading all the comments.
Aren’t there other countries with common-law marriages?
I agree. The daughters aren’t navigating this perfectly, but it’s life and it’s messy.
Yeah, ironic that all of a sudden they wanna talk to OP because they know she has money.
it's worse, right? 

Tim did everything he could & helped his wife do everything she could, so the mother could attend her daughters' weddings... their fictional life insurance money only came in later, they thought, and they've been wayting for him to pay them back... the vultures.
They don't even sound concerned about their dad being taken advantage of. They were upset because they thought his money should flow towards THEM, and not towards himself or OP. 
Once they realized the money river flowed the other way of course they are repositioning themselves.
They weren’t concerned about him, only the money they thought he had. He was only concerned about saving face, not OP’s feelings. The whole family sounds horrible. 

Death brings out the worst in families. I’ve seen family squabble over small amounts of money, instead of being grateful they got anything at all. Or being sad they got money only because someone died.
That might be true but it is also an assumption about them being only interested in money while blaming them for making an assumption that OP is only interested in their dad’s money. OP should be careful and be very suspicious of any sudden requests for money but assuming the best rather than the worst of people is more likely to fix this situation. She just needs to keep her guard up while she does so.
Exactly, did they ever even consider the cost of their mother’s care as well?
This is analogous to those situations when someone who is cheated on gets angrier at the affair partner than their spouse.

These girls might have been fair to be mad at their dad, but are showing their characters by being cruel to OP.
I think we've spotted the real Gold diggers....
They were furious he seemingly bought a nicer car for himself, when his old 2010 was breaking down and also hurt his back very badly and made it hard for him to drive it, rather than splash out on their weddings. They are selfish entitled monsters.
>life insurance money that should go towards their weddings

I read this as though they thought their mother's life insurance money took care of her medical expenses. They were married while she was still alive.
Thank you for this comment but especially thanks for spelling "wary" correctly; 1st time I've seen it spelled right on Reddit.
Or... they assumed dad was being taken advantage of, and now they know they were wrong, they are just remorseful. 

Don't have to pretend that every single person is a leech and wants money from another. Most people are good people, reddit seems to forget.
They care about their Dad so much that they haven't ever visited. 

Otherwise they'd know he moved out of the house he owned, and into OPs house. 

Dad didn't tell them about his life because they only care about the money. If neither Dad or OP had it, 100% believe they'd be low/no contact. 

Op NTA. 

She should probably tell her partner he absolutely should go low/NC with his children until they learn to treat him like a human being. Until they can respect him enough to have normal, adult relationship with him.
You can be friendly and kind without paying/loaning/covering costs for them.
There are ways to ensure it's not that. They don't have to come visit you in summer. Use his number to call them and discuss it, and remember that you don't have to warm up to them fast.
I suggest be open and polite, but give them no money and no beach stay. Give them a chance, but be frank about how shitty their assumptions were and how much work they have to do to crawl out of the doghouse of their own prejudices. And heartfelt, in person apologies have to be the first step.
If you do engage and they're sincere, you took a chance and it worked out, if they're not, you're not a fool for being open. If you don't engage and they're just moochers, you took a chance and it worked out, and if they're sincere then there's just more work to do build up a relationship. 

I think this is one of those times in life where there is no single 'right' thing that will guarantee a good outcome, because nothing you do can control whether the daughters are sincere or not. 

Instead, it's one of life's little opportunities to make decisions based on your values and who you want to be. Considering you don't and can't know if the apologies are sincere yet, how would you handle the situation if your goal was to be proud of yourself afterwards? Because whatever you do, you'll probably find out what's really going on eventually, so the question is how to do you want to spend your time until then?
Make sure you do not get married if you think they’re after your money. Make sure your will is up to date . People cozying up when money is involved usually mean trouble in the long run. They’ll start by asking their dad for money, and then say why don’t you ask MothMan for it? I’m sure they would be more than willing to help you (us) out if they love you. And then they’ll start expecting you to leave everything to daddy dearest in your will. 

Just be cautious, and don’t let them start expecting stuff from you by handing out “a helping hand” here and there.
I think if you've been in a blessed position with your income for a long time, you've got experience to know when something seems suss. If your gut is telling you not to trust them, then you should trust your gut. Maybe be mildly friendly to keep the peace but if they ever chat about money, just do that airy "oh it's all tied up here and there, having cash around isn't something I do"
You don’t have to be instant best friends.  And I would not allow them to stay with you this summer.  They can get a hotel.  If they come and apologize to you and truly want to make amend you’ll know.  But you shouldn’t just shut them down because they’ve obviously been misled
If they wanted to get to know you better, they'd be talking about visits around Thanksgiving or Christmas, offering you sincere apologies for their behavior (I know they don't have your number, but they could call on dad's phone and he could pass it to you) and generally being actually contrite.

We want to come for a visit in the summer is just them wanting perks from you.
I am not one to judge but I would be protective of my situation. One can be friendly without being a doormat. Can the daughter's vacation at my house? Sure, once we have become better acquainted and I know them better. If you feel you know them well enough now, then by all means, but I would make sure there are rules in place as to a guest's responsibilities. How will meals be handled, activities, cleanup? Don't let them take advantage. How this first visit goes will set expectations for the future. Be honest with your man about your boundaries.
When I first read this post I thought the girls were after OPs money because they realized their dad was broke as a joke. Idk I still feel that way. Just be careful OP.
You're not wrong. The timing does feel off. You guys can get to know each other slowly, and feel it out. They don't need to make up for 2 years of rudeness in one day. If they are truly remorseful and interested in building a genuine relationship, you will figure it out
Listen to your gut. These women are selfish enough to ignore whatever signs there must have been that their dad was in financial trouble. But they wouldn't even ask how it's going when they know their mom has had three bouts of cancer and the news is always filled with stories about the cost of medical Care makes me think that they are a bit self-centered. 


He might not want to believe it, but that doesn't mean you have to buy into the fantasy
Do not trust those girls. I would not let them come to my home after treating me the way you say they treated you. Please be careful. They want your money.
I’d say they’re definitely cozying up to you, now that they know you have money.  Especially if you marry their dad and become “grandma” to any future kids they have.  They definitely want to reap the benefits of being close to you.  

There may be some genuine level of regret toward believing you were a gold digger, but I don’t see them inviting you over to THEIR homes.  I see them inviting themselves to YOUR house, instead.
They felt entitled to their inheritance while their father is still alive and got angry at him for spending what they thought should be going to them. That feels especially gross given they've already very traumatically lost one parent and are showing little appreciation for still having one alive with them. I think you can be polite and welcoming for your partner's sake without letting your guard down about your gut feeling. I agree with your gut that they now see you as the only way they will inherit anything. And they are not entitled to what you have built for yourself.
You haven’t been wrong about the money. You’ve caught onto to it with some people and they changed tactics to gaslight you into thinking you were wrong.
Same as a guy who’s being too friendly telling you he REALLY DOES just want to be friends after you call him on it. 

They’re just saving face when confronted with a boundary they thought they were going to slip by.

Trust your instincts.
All the explanations and excuses that have been given for their behavior, even if they're true, still show an rude, entitled mindset devoid of empathy and compassion.

I would also assume they are after your money because they assumed, with no evidence and no questions asked, that you were after their dad's money.
Should be easy enough to confirm though right? Offer to speak to them and see where it goes. If you get that same feeling still then you know they’re after your status and that’s that. 

I wouldn’t blame you at all for sticking to your guns either, just saying it’s an option
They seemed put off by the idea that he might be supporting you but because it’s the other way around suddenly it’s okay. 

Your bf didn’t have to say anything about his financial situation, he could've just said  you owned the house and it was paid for and the car was yours. He could’ve said something much sooner instead of allowing you to suffer through 2 years of their mistreatment of you. 

You can talk to them and get a feel for them yourself. If they’re sincerely apologetic and don’t shown signs of wanting something or using you I’d give them a chance. If they try to justify themselves or sweep it all under the rug and ask when they can come and stay for a nice vacation I’d keep some distance.
Just because their own father thinks so, doesn’t make it true. Parents can be blinded by love for their children. If I had listened to my (usually very good) instincts instead of my partner about his kids… I’d have avoided a lot of suffering. 

The confusion of being gaslit in the stepmother position is so painful. You should read Stepmonster. Educate yourself. It’s a horribly complex role, even though the children are grown.
Also take note HOW they framed the “apology”. They are sorry you “felt lonely”(!). NOT, “we’re sorry for how we treated you” or “we apologize for our poor behavior.” There is no accountability or ownership. They’re clearly just providing lip service to appease dad. All 🚩🚩🚩🚩
I think it would be appropriate to allow them the chance to show you their true colors. Set boundaries, but open up paths of communication. They can text and call, but you don’t have to respond if it seems at all fake or turns toward money. Let them visit, but if they don’t take a genuine interest in YOU, but more so in what you can do for them, take steps back. Again, set boundaries. And I personally would also let my husband know that’s exactly what I’m doing.
Even if you had been a poor bartender and your husband had been well to do...maybe one could generously understand their suspicions.  However, the mean, nasty treatment of you was uncalled for and childish. Deliberately making you unwelcome shows a lack of grace and maturity. The focus was only on how they felt with little interest in how their father felt.  They never had to be your best friend. There was no call for them to act the way they did.  If they apologize sincerely, I would accept it.  I would not trust them or plan on becoming friends.
I'd say in the interest of your relationship with Tim, give them a chance. See how they act face-to-face now that the misconceptions have been cleared up and the facts laid bare. I suspect you have an excellent BS detector and will be able to tell whether the turnaround is (a) genuine, (b) permanent, and (c) without ulterior motives. Good luck!
I don't know if their dad has done this already, but pride or not, he needs to sit down with the girls, and lay it all out.  All the money spent, trying to help their mom.  Why he's broke.  Until that's done, they'll always have the wrong information about him and you.
They owe you an apology in person, about how they were incorrect on assumptions,  instead of through their father telling you of apology.  After that, trust your instincts, it has been 2 years, and only 2 years. If you and Tim can sit with his kids, go through all the finances that Tim put into his late wife's expenses for treatment, show he was broke..OUT OF DESPERATION TO TREAT HIS WIFE,  and how you came along,  and helped him, no gold digger on you, and really, I don't believe he is gold digger either.

I think he cares deeply and is grateful,  you are soooo understanding, but he needs to sit down with you and kids and spell it out, they won't figure it out without that... well they mightv4 years from now, but intervention time
I would ask them host you first and see how things go. I certainly wouldn’t be hosting them first when they’ve been so hurtful. They need to make an effort to mend fences BEFORE you decide to let them into your personal space. NTA. 
See how they react to being told "no". If they're like countless others we've read about, they'll resent it and try to make you feel bad about yourself 

Please get a prenup if you ever marry, especially if you want to provide for your own kids one day. Even if you don't, those daughters sound extremely opportunistic. Inviting themselves to the beach home of someone they treated so shabbily and complaining that their weddings aren't being paid for both smack of deep-seated entitlement. Don't let them have a dime. Big NTA.
The timing is off. They made VERY unkind and disparaging assumptions about you and then acted on those assumptions in very rude ways. 


I'd say tim has a lot of gall telling you to be more forgiving. I get he is protective of them, but they are grown adults. They should have known better than to act in such a way. 


I personally would tell tim they can rent a place at the beach and he can go see them there. Rhen I'd think real hard about whether I'd like to join them for dinner. Maybe. 


Point is, they can do all the things they spelled out in their 'apology' without vacationing on your dime. 


Don't sell yourself short. You're worth more than their disrespect because they 'didn't understand'. 


Bull.
If Tim doesn’t think it’s about the money, maybe draw a line in the sand now that you will give them an opportunity to atone but that they will not be benefitting from your largesse. So if they come to visit, they stay in a hotel on their dime, if you all eat out the bill is split etc.  They’re his kids, not yours. I definitely would be wary in your position.
Sure he knows them better than you do, but he’s also got plenty of (understandable) bias in wanting to believe the best of them, and wanting you to believe that as well. 

I’d be cooly cordial for the sake of your relationship, and make sure to guard the dough if it were me.
This is coming from the man who chose his pride over the truth and hurting you. I know you love him, OP, but the man *and* his daughters sound like opportunists.
Tim didn't think they would act the way they at Christmas, yet they still did and he might not be the most impartial person when it comes to his children.

 Suggestions: Be honest to them (through a team meeting maybe with Tim present) about how they made you feel during those Christmases, not just once but twice. You understand that they had concerns but it doesn't excuse the fact that they went out of their way to exclude you and make you unwelcome. It doesn't excuse the fact that they didn't approach their dad with their concerns in a mature way. And it certainly doesn't excuse the lack of genuine remorse for the way they treated you which they have minimised and brush off. However you are prepared to give them the benefit of the doubt and may consider some form of relationship for the sake of their dad, but it will take time, a lot of time for you to trust them. You won't be receiving them this summer because you are still too hurt by their behaviour and the things they have said, maybe another time, but not at the moment, and maybe not for a long time. They have a lot to make up for." Then watch this space.

I would make it clear to Tim that you are happy to continue to help him to recover financially of course, but in order to build the trust back, you won't help them financially directly or indirectly (certainly including free beach holiday for the foreseeable future). He can of course do what he wants with his money, but he won't be able to rely on you to bail him out if he goes in debt for them. If they are the people he believes they are it won't be a problem. Unfortunately, there is a lot of trust which needs to be earned, and because of your past experience with people changing their tunes when they realise your financial worth, you are not there yet.
The thing is, you can genuinely act a certain way with two completely different intentions. 

Is it plausible that they are wanting to get close now because they think they might be able to milk you for money? Sure.

Is it also plausible that they are horrified that they have been thinking the worst of you for years, and barely hiding it, only to find out that actually you've been the one taking care of their Dad, right down to a comfy ride for his poor back? And desperately wanting to mend things, and willing to do all the travelling and work to make it happen because how could they ask you to do more than just see them after that? Also yes.

I would give them the benefit of the doubt and treat them like they're in the second scenario. If they're really in the first, they'll show their true colours soon enough.
Stay polite; pick up ZERO checks.
Have daughters apologized for previous behavior? Asked for a fresh start? Been welcoming in anyway?
It is really hard to believe that the girls thought dad supporting mom for THREE rounds of cancer did NOT affect his finances. Even with life insurance (which could not have happened after she already had cancer), there would be expenses. They didn't even ASK dad how he was doing financially. That is pretty insensitive. Did they even ask while spending dad's money on their wedding???
If they start hitting you up for financial favors, then you know. Have a ready reply: “Is this why you want to be friendly after all the rudeness?”
While I think you would be wise to be watchful with them, I also think you should give them a chance. Remember the saying that you shouldn't attribute to malice what can be explained by stupidity – or, in this case, ignorance and misunderstanding. So while their sudden desire to come visit you (near the beach, in summer) seems suspicious, don't focus on that; instead, calmly, smilingly say that it would be so nice for them to come visit their dad, and then say you'd be happy to offer hotel suggestions. Give them an opportunity to show you that they are decent people – but don't assume they're perfect, innocent angels, either.
Trust your gut. Tim is a father first. He will always think his daughters are angels and can do no wrong. You on the other hand can view the situation from a more objective lens. Proceed with caution.
Not only that but they will push their father to persuade her to let them use her for money, putting him in the middle. He is not telling them now to back off, he's telling OP to ignore the valid feelings she has and to call them. The statement about coming to visit at her house on the beach says everything about what they are truly about. OP should be civil and if they want to truly get to know her they can do it from a hotel and pay their way.
I had to read way too far before "hobosexual" was mentioned. The age gap is questionable, too.
I’d never heard of the term “hobosexual” before - but my goodness it fits the BF to a tee!
That... is a perspective I hadn't quite considered.  
Thank you.
Maybe? If I were his kid, I'd be pissed at him as well if that's what I thought was going on. I would have had this recent conversation before he showed up at my house with her the first time.
It's understandable that they might be hurt. Most children would be. It's not understandable that they were rude to her originally. I can't stand my vile MIL, and yet I'm still civil and polite every time I have to see her. And trust me, what she has done is much worse than what these girls have been imagining.
It's amazing how much cancer treatment costs. My brothers all wondered what happened to my parents savings. Welp, cancer happened.
That’s kinda what I was thinking. Like what if she didn’t have a house near a beach? Would they still want to visit her or be cordial? What if she didn’t have a home period and they rented together a small unit. Would the daughters even attempt to be decent human beings? 
This right here, in spades.

OP you are NTA, but you sure would be if you believed these girls suddenly have an interest in being 'friends' after the way they treated you. They now know you have plenty of money, and you live near the beach. They're looking for a cushy vacay on your dime.
I wish that hadn't occurred to me, but it did.  They were angry when they thought you got "their" inheritance. Maybe they think they'll get it from you now. 🤔
I hope I'm wildly wrong.
Exactly. It’s all about the money. They never even stopped to consider their father’s happiness, especially since they are so far away from him, they can’t be there for him.
I agree. They have proven themselves to have a bad character by treating the OP so badly to begin with. They had the power then and they used it to be cruel
Other comments show wife passed around August 2020.

She didn't start dating Tim till January 2022.
It's not just that he brought his new girlfriend for Christmas, but apparently he moved 6 hours away from his daughters to go move in with this woman, and moving in with her happened relatively quickly after they started dating. He moved 6 hours away after dating this woman for only 8 months.
She's said it in a few comments, August 2020
You might not be friendly but would you ignore them and go as far as to literally keep your spouse from even making small talk with them? Also don't forget their assumptions could've been cleared up if they had simply spoken to her and cared to learn anything about her. Yet they didn't until it came out that shes not a gold digger, in fact she's rich! 

You know what they say when someone assumes something? It makes an ass out of u and me. They didnt even talk to their father about this assumption until now. They were fully grown adults that chose to go pretty far just to be rude to someone they didn't know over an assumption they made. You don't get to just walk that behavior back because you want come stay at the beach house.
Don't rush to spend any of your money on them. Gift them from his budget, not yours.


Let them get a hotel when they visit. Don't pay for flight tickets, weddings Etc. 


Take time and see if their sudden change of heart is from what they hope to get from you. Or if they are genuinely sorry and looking to build a relationship with you. 
Always get separate checks for meals when with his daughters.. Don't pay for Tim either when out with them.
There's nothing wrong with getting to know them and developing a positive relationship. I think this would benefit everyone really. Your relationship with their dad as well as better, less stressful holiday times. 

However, it really does seem like their intentions are clear. They didn't want their father to spend extra money to see them more because they wanted that money later. This is so incredibly damning because this shows they prioritize what they believed to be their inheritance over time with family. This is after-death kind of foreshadowing. So finding out you are the actual breadwinner is what peaked their interests..and capricious behavior. They're playing the long game of developing a relationship with you in hopes it pays off later. Keep your finances and money far from them.

With that said, develop a relationship with them. Nothing wrong with forgive and forget, but just remember they revealed their hand/intentions. And the fact they had this mentality with their father shows *it won't change*, especially towards you. Maybe having them spend the first holiday in a hotel is a good way to show you won't put up with BS too. That will help establish boundaries and respect in your future relationship with them. Just keep money out of it.

Note: Expect some drama in the future when they start finding out their sweet-talking and "acceptance" of you isn't getting them into your inheritance.
Get to know them, sure, but don't let them or this comment section wear you down into giving ground on this.

You're right in the things you said originally. They had their chance to not be bellends to you. You having money shouldn't change that. They should have been mad at their dad, not you, in the first instance with all the "blowing money to impress a bimbo" stuff.
There are. Canada is one of them. My husband and I are Common-law. We are treated exactly like people who have marriage certificates in the eyes of the government.
And a house by the beach, just more entitlement!!
Isn't OP now taking care of their dad in the same way they were concerned about him taking care of her? They thought she was sponging off him, but in reality he's got a pretty sweet set-up, and living with her has taken a lot of financial stress off him.

Not only that, now they have learned dad is broke, in debt, and there's no life insurance

Funny when the shoe is on the other foot they want to be friendly with her.

NTA
Their sudden interest feels like opportunism. Trust takes time, be cautious moving forward.
I think we've discovered the real gold diggers!
Right? He threw in the most expensive thing ever for the weddings (priceless really) and that was having their mother there. Gave all they had for that 😞

I bet the girls will feel awful when they work it out. I really do hope so, anyway.
Maybe they are just grateful OP is supporting their (potentially) gold digging father and THEY will not have to support him or care for his health for 2 decades if he hits average life expectancy. Further, if they were so horrified that dad was “being taken advantage of” I’d think they might feel a bit of embarrassment AND gratitude that he is relying on someone young enough to technically be his child (17yr age gap) to care for him. 

OP NTA 

OP - At your current ages, the impact of age is not quite as apparent (assuming nothing unexpected like cancer/Als/, etc.) But add a decade. You will still be young and he will be just shy of 70. The statistics point to you having to expend love, time, energy AND money to care for him given age gap. Consider if the relationship is worth becoming what people in my area call “a nurse with a purse.” 

Best of luck to OP!!
Edit- fix spelling errors (may have missed more)
Maybe, there’s about 10 sides to every story. Them talking about how the non-existant life insurance should have gone to them makes it sound like they’re greedy though…
This. Be your genuine self, OP, be open to building a relationship with them -  but at the same time, watch them - and your pockets - carefully.
Exactly. And that’s exactly what OP should do in this situation.
yeah, she needs to get to know them herself. then she'll have more insight into their personalities, and likely motivations.
This was my thought. There’s a really easy way to test if they’re only sniffing around for the money - don’t give them any money. Don’t let them stay over at the sweet beach location. Just continue on (financially) as if nothing has changed and they are being cold. Maybe go out for a meal (but don’t pay for everyone), talk to them on the phone, go out for coffee.  

If they are genuinely remorseful, that will be enough. If they press for benefits in any way (“When can we come and stay?” “My car is pretty old…” “We thought you’d cover the whole dinner bill” etc) then OP has their answer.  
And, to be honest, BF kind of sounds like a money pit himself. I’d be concerned that it’s more about the cushy set-up he has from being with OP. But obviously that’s from the outside looking in, with only this snapshot as information. But he’s definitely fallen on his feet, hasn’t he?
And a free vacation in the beach house. 

They want to be friends? Friends visit the colder, rain season, because they want to visit the person  not visit the house.

Green flags for the bf! So many men leave their wife when they get cancer. He staid, and I know first hand what that is like.

OP, do not marry him if it means your money and house or even part of it go to the daughters though.
Make.sure it goes to your family and friends. What goes to him, they will use, you probably won't get around that.

I always believe the best about people till they showed differently, and when they have, I.have zero interest to keep them.in my life. It has made my life easier and happier and my inner circle are true friends.
Yeah. You can be polite without being “friendly”. 

The daughters super super need to apologize, as does Tim.
Yes, they got to take their time to 'warm up'.  Now OP gets to take time to trust them.
man, i'm not op, but thank you for that last paragraph. beautifully put
>...how would you handle the situation if your goal was to be proud of yourself afterwards?

Wow, reading this felt like an epiphany. I've heard similar advice many times before but your wording really drives it home.
That is beautifully put & great advice. 

However, the way I read it, they haven't actually apologized yet. They definitely didn't apologize TO OP (since she doesn't want them to have her phone number, they could each write her a letter, or ask Dad to hand OP the phone). 
They only told their father they were sorry OP "felt lonely" during the previous holidays she spent with them. That is not an apology for their behavior. "I'm sorry you feel that way" is a fake apology & takes zero responsibility for their actions.
Umm... Yeah, what the unicorn said.
I saved this comment for later because this really is a wonderful sentiment for a lot of situations in life. Thank you!
Didn’t realize OPs name and went “MothMan has money? 👁️🫦👁️”
It's up to OP, but if she does decide to have a small visit this Summer & a conversation turns to Money...just be careful cuz that could be the deciding factor. If 1 or both start asking to many questions regarding ur financial status...Its None of their Business & OP should expect Tim to back her up on that!! I think these girls might be alittle Materialistic & just being on the side of caution is what will be for the Best in the long run. Their True side will show sooner rather than later...I hope I am wrong But Greedy is a Tricky Monster.
Awesome advice, ALL of this.
"Mildly friendly" is also the perfect tone here.
This is the correct answer. I hope OP reads and pays attention to this one.
I don't think they were misled, they made assumptions and judgments.
Fish and houseguests smell after 3 days. “A short visit would be nice on your way to … why don’t you come and stay for the weekend of …. Your father and I have plans for the  Tuesday so your visit will need to be short. “
True.

I don't have much, but since my mother passed away in cancer, I check in regularly with my stepdad who stayed and cared for her  to make sure he has enough money. He is a proud man, so I sometimes send gifts for his animals, like huge bags of dog food. 

And these women are his own blood. Were they involved in hands on care for their mother? Or just a visit here and there.
OP is a bartender. She likely has a better "gut" than most of us! Just needs to take her time to observe and re-assess. You got this, OP. NTA
lol what?
I think this is it, OP.  They thought their father, crazy with grief, had fallen into the clutches of an evil hobosexual, and he was freely giving her the last remnants of their mother while parading this woman through their homes on holidays.

I'm middle-aged and financially secure, but if I believed this was happening in my family today, I'd have a hard time staying civil.  And, in my 20s and 30s...?  Forget it!  I would've vented my spleen all over her.
ESH, but I'm gonna say Tim most of all for not being clear with his daughters for literal YEARS. Building on what the commenter said above, it could be partly that they see him as spending his money on you, but ALSO - he's older than you,  and they watched their mother die horribly.  There's a big chance that there is also the fear that if he spends all his money on you, that would be get sick - like cancer - he wouldn't have money to get the treatment he needs, or if he needs full time care as he gets older.  (Also, just something to consider,  if he hid the financial details about their mother, is it possible he hid other things, like how sick she really was? That could also complicate things. ) 

It's possible that they changed their minds because you have money, but i think if it was just about money, they would be trying to cozy up to you right away, where as it seems more like they are trying to figure out what to do with this new information.   It's possible that they see trying to shift in their heads a while lot of things,  and this is their first step.  You don't have to bend over backwards for them, but maybe meet them in the middle somehow,  go visit when it is not a holiday,  stay in a hotel (your husband can hang out with them during the day) and have lunch, or dinner, or coffee with them.  That way you are meeting their reach out while maintaining your boundaries,  and able to evaluate things in person. 

Also, you need to have a SERIOUS conversation with Tim - what has he told his daughters and not, and double check - what is he telling other people about your relationship? This might go deeper than his daughters.
I think u/Masta_Blasta made a really good point. Maybe this could be chalked up to a misunderstanding. And when you can choose a charitable explanation, it's best to do so. 

I think they owe you an honest apology, though. And so does your husband; he has good intentions to protect his kids, but it was his pride that helped create this situation. 

After that -- I'm turned off by their desire to visit "you" in the summer, as opposed to the nearby beach. I think they might be about the money, so I would watch carefully. 

And going forward, you and your husband MUST be more open with each other and agree to be open with his kids as well. That's the only way that trust and boundaries can be had.
I am concerned as to HOW they framed the “apology”. They are sorry op “felt lonely”(!). NOT, “we’re sorry for how we treated you” or “we apologize for our poor behavior.” There is no accountability or ownership. They’re clearly just providing lip service to appease dad and possibly get access to her 💵💵💵
Yet they are adults - and if it had been his money, it’s his right to spend it how he likes.

If they had a medical emergency or something then yes, I can understand them being upset if he would prefer a new car. 

But no one is entitled to an expensive wedding.

Honestly they sound entitled AF and I wouldn’t trust their integrity. You at the least deserved basic decent behaviour and didn’t get it.
Gosh, right? Like if I thought my step mom was taking advantage of my dad financially, I'd be grilling his ass for details and trying to talk him out of it super explicitly, not just giving her the cold shoulder with no explanation.
Same. If this was my father with a new spouse and everything he’s said had led me to believe that he’s essentially lost his damn mind then…….I honestly can’t say I would have reacted too well either.

But I also would have tried to have a conversation with him one on one before them showing up to my house…..

But then in a irl example, my father quite literally didn’t tell my sister and I he was seeing someone new until he set up a father-daughter lunch to catch up with us……and it was actually to introduce his girlfriend so we had no warning lol. 

I’m curious now and hoping the 1st Christmas get together OP spoke of wasn’t the first time she was meeting them. Like if Tim didn’t tell his daughters he was bringing a guest (aka new partner) like yikes.

I definitely think this situation, depending on the perspective told can really make you feel empathetic to both parties…..with the exception of maybe Tim depending on his communication skills to both OP and his daughters since he’s the common denominator in the whole debacle.
Well of course that part is correct. 😄
The test will be how they react to their gifts at Christmas. Will they gracefully accept knitted scarf and glove sets, or will they pout that OP could've afforded better gifts?
[removed]
And a connection to a car dealership that has luxury vehicles.
Invite them in the deepest winters only for a couple of times. They will show their true colors soon enough.
OP should buy a cabin in Appalachia or something and winter there, or at least claim she does and see how quick the kids don’t want to spend time with her suddenly.
Right! And they even said they were upset at OP because she didn’t contribute towards their weddings. Like the audacity of them. I wouldn’t give them a dime if I was OP and I wouldn’t let them stay in my house either. If they want to visit they can stay in a hotel.
Assuming they always knew she had a house near the beach then if it was about money they would’ve been sucking up in the 2 years they’ve been together which they haven’t so I highly doubt it
Exactly, and like.. you’re mad bc your dad is happy with someone and buying HIMSELF new things? (Like I know OP bought it but they assumed he did) He tells them he’s excited about his new car, and they automatically think he bought it for her? They seem to like to assume A LOT of things and making harsh judgements without bothering to even have a conversation with this woman. 

You’d think they’d want to see their father move on and be happy, ya know.. being adults and all. But instead all they thought about was themselves. 

“Didn’t lend a dime for our weddings” selfish assholes. 

No good vibes happening with those girls.
"Isn't OP now taking care of their dad in the same way they were concerned about him taking care of her?". Yeah. But of course now! it's all good. Now! it's something to connect positivly over. 🙄
Agreed.   
Give them a small chance, being very careful about things. See how they act, and more importantly what they ask for, and after a few weeks to consider, decide if moving a little bit closer is a good idea.
This.

This could be opportunism.  Be wary.  Be aware.
I agree with this, get to know them, but be very observant, they appear to be spoiled entitled daughters. All of a sudden they are nice after learning OP is the one with money. They must have known that their mother’s medical expenses were exorbitant and how hard the father worked to give her everything to survive to see them marry and they talk to him about entitlement, should have paid for their wedding and where is their share of non existent insurance policy. How could they be so  blind to their mother’s suffering and their father’s heartache?
Why? They declined to get to know her when she was there to make an effort. They can wait till she's good and ready to try again IMO.
You are so welcome. Thank you right back.
Good clarification. misled removes the responsibility and accountability for their actions. They made boneheaded assumptions and showed their ass acting on those assumptions. I would be very wary and it's hard to build back up trust when people have made such a terrible first impression. I'd be interested to talk to the daughter's husbands. Maybe one of them would be able to tell if the girls are entitled or if they were genuinely concerned and took it too far. 

It's still insanely rude what they did, but if they did it out of genuine concern for their father, I'm more inclined to give grace.
Not sure OP will ever see this, but Tim should get long term care insurance!! Even with a trust fund, long term care is so so expensive and once you're older you often get denied coverage
All true but, these are full grown married women who chose to be mean to OP instead of speaking to their father in private.
Of course, but they also have the right to be hurt. I speak from experience- it’s hard watching a parent frivolously spend money while watching you fall behind in bills because you’re barely scraping by. I recognize I’m not entitled to my parents money, but it still hurts to feel like my health and education (and I’m literally referring to medical bills and tuition) don’t seem as important as buying another gun (my dad has over 300 and blows through thousands in auctions each week). Of course he’s entitled to do that- but it still hurts. The daughters are allowed to feel hurt over that. And it’s not about the money- it’s about the message.
Do we know they had expensive weddings though? Parents contributing to a wedding is pretty common where I’m from. I think its more the principle of the thing than the money itself
> it's his right to spend it how he likes

> Honestly they sound entitled AF

This is a pretty harsh take considering they thought it was *their late mother's life insurance money.* If you watched your mother die and thought your father was using her life insurance money to impress a new woman, you'd be pretty pissed too.
If they didn't exchange gifts for the last 2 years, there's no reason to start now. And gift-giving is Tim's responsibility, not OP's.
I’m sorry but I agree . They don’t sound sorry . And how old are these women ? They’re not children . They had to realize their Dad was spending some $$$$. Americans deal with our horrible medical system taking all our money all the time . They never considered this ? They sound kind of self centered
agreed! 

my grandmother (though not very maternal) took care of my grandfather at home till he passed away (in his 80s) : she aged 10 years during those 5 years of home care, and his decline was very gentle without major medical events, so no operations or chemo appointments and other things Tim's wife probably needed. 

informal care givers like Tim and my grandmother are infamously an at-risk group for burn-out, yet these daughters are here going "when are you going to start handing out the life insurance money you obviously received".
Too many adult children assume the rights to their parents’ money in their heads.
It’s not their money.
If their parents wanted to move to a 3rd world country and give it to all of the starving, unhoused families, they CAN and probably should.
My husband and I lay no claim to and have no expectations towards getting anything of my in-laws (My own mother doesn’t have much and my father is deceased.) aside from the work it will take to clean their homes up and execute their wills exactly as they have laid out.
Knowing them, the money will likely go to our local homeless camp, the kids they know in Mexico, etc.  and that’s amazing.
My husband and I can make our own money, just like they have. 
Where do people get off? 
Now my step-brother on the other hand, thinks my mother and stepdad’s minimal land is his “birthright.”  
His words. He makes significantly more than they do and doesn’t care that they may need to sell in order to finance their last years.
Outrageous.
I wonder if having grown up as a banker's daughters means maybe they were a bit spoiled and entitled even before their widower father got his new girlfriend ?
The "didn't lend a dime for the wedding" comment really has me thinking these girls are entitled brats. Why in the world would they think OP should have contributed? She isn't their mother. I'm not convinced their "concerns" were so much about their father being fleeced as their speculated inheritance being spent on someone else.
And even if it was as they thought, it would have been HIS money, not theirs.   
I’d stay far away from these entitled brats and send him alone to visit them.

If it ever becomes. ‘It’s you or them’, let’s face it, he’s probably going to choose her because the kids aren’t going to support him and give him a sweet comfortable life.
That may or may not be the case, which is why OP needs to take their all moving forward together from this point on very, very carefully.  They could just as easily have been blown away by their mother's illness and death and have had their perspective totally skewed because of that - or they could very well be entitled little princesses thinking only of daddy's wallet and now eyeing hers... OP will have to take her time, and wait and see. 

So, if they want to come visit, fine - but make sure from the beginning that they will be taking care of their own accommodations and not assume she's about to either open her home to them just like that \*snaps fingers\* or subsidize the visit. They are going to have to earn a relationship with her. in a way that has nothing to do with OP's money.  And if they can't swing that, everyone will know where they stand.
Because they’re her partner’s children and people try to do nice things for their partners. 
Yeah my dad went to Italy three times this year to see his much younger girlfriend, paid for her to come here, meanwhile my sister and I had to downsize apartments and move in together to save on bills. We're adults, there's no requirement for him to help us but... idk it hurts when your parent picks a new shiny romantic partner over you. I like the girlfriend and am nice to her but I wish my dad wasn't suddenly centering his entire life around her.
AITA for demanding that my niece, or her parents, pay me back for the hundreds of dollars of perfume she stole from me?
(**Note: I’m not involving the police, suing anyone, etc. Please don't try to argue with me about this or "convince" me why I should.**)

I have a perfume collection that I started when I was a teenager slinging burritos as my first job. I have over 400 bottles at this point, I take great pride in my collection, and I use it. I’m also happy to give people decants (samples) of most of my bottles, let them sample a spray or two, give some bottles as gifts, etc. 

What I have a HUGE fucking issue with is my 17 year old niece coming into my home under the guise of walking my dog, decanting bottles on her own and SELLING THE SAMPLES to her little friends. She thinks that because I have so many bottles, I wouldn’t notice some missing or getting massive dents in them. Well little miss entrepreneur failed to realize that her “private” Instagram wasn’t “friends only” or whatever and I saw each and every fucking story with each price and sample she had.

I tallied that shit up and got a pretty good estimate based on cost per ounce. Thankfully she mostly picked the “Tiktok famous” perfumes like Bianco Latte and Escapade Gourmand and didn’t go for the most rare, niche perfumes. She did snatch an entire 2.5 oz bottle of Baccarat Rouge, though, which runs $300+ at most retailers, as well as full bottles of perfumes you can get at Sephora. Like Marc Jacobs Daisy, Burberry Her Elixir, Flowerbomb, etc. 

Petty or not, I printed out the entire list of what she’d taken, price estimate, and handed it off to my sister (her mom). I said that I expect to be paid back, in full. And of course her fucking sneaky little ass is never allowed in my home again. My sister got super pissy with me going on about how my niece is just a kid, kids make mistakes, etc. I said yes, kids make mistakes, and this is a GREAT way for my niece to learn from hers.

Their argument is that now the money she was going to use for a car has to go towards paying me back. I don’t care. She is lucky that I have no interest in involving the police, small claims, or any of that. But AITA, because she IS a teenager?
Welcome to /r/AmITheAsshole. Please view our [voting guide here](https://www.reddit.com/r/AmItheAsshole/wiki/faq#wiki_what.2019s_with_these_acronyms.3F_what_do_they_mean.3F), and remember to use **only one** judgement in your comment.

OP has offered the following explanation for why they think they might be the asshole:

 > I'm demanding my niece or her parents pay me back for what she stole from me. This means she's not going to be able to buy a car for college anytime soon, which is what would make me the asshole. She'll need the car for college.

Help keep the sub engaging!

#Don’t downvote assholes!

Do upvote interesting posts!

 [Click Here For Our Rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/AmItheAsshole/about/rules) and [Click Here For Our FAQ](https://www.reddit.com/r/AmItheAsshole/wiki/faq)

##Subreddit Announcements

Follow the link above to learn more

---

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose/?to=/r/AmItheAsshole) if you have any questions or concerns.*

*Contest mode is 1.5 hours long on this post.*
NTA. I don’t see how her not having a car is your problem. The money she has for the car is made from selling perfume she stole from you. She’s lucky the consequences are not more serious. I guess she won’t have a car until she figures out legitimate ways to earn money that doesn’t involve stealing.
A mistake would be accidentally knocking over and breaking a bottle.

She had to:
- make a plan
- find a way into your house
- Choose a perfume
- put it into a sample bottle
- look up prices
- set up her Instagram
- collect the money
- deliver the perfume
- repeat

At any one of these points she could and should have realized that what she was doing was wrong and could get her in trouble. The only reason she thought she could do this is because she thought she wouldn't face any consequences because you are family.

Imagine if she went into a Sephora and stole perfume to sell it. Would her mom still say "oh she's just a kid"?! Someone who is old enough to think about getting a car and with that level of criminal energy is definitely old and mature enough to fave the consequences of their own actions. She will only escalate from this point on if she gets away with this
NTA. I can see from the fact that her mom considers a 17-year-old "just a kid," as if she were a 5-year-old who stole a cookie before dinner, has caused her to act very entitled. She made a series of decisions to steal from you and profit from it. And she's either "just a kid" when she's stealing pricey scents, or she's an almost adult saving up for a car; can't have it both ways on your dime. You'll be teaching her a better lesson than her mom bothered to.
She's "just a kid" who created a successful business enterprise selling stolen property. NTA
NTA

>Note: I’m not involving the police, suing anyone, etc. Please don't try to argue with me about this or "convince" me why I should.

Understood but your niece is very lucky you are taking this approach.

>Their argument is that now the money she was going to use for a car has to go towards paying me back. I don’t care.

Of course it has to go to paying you back. Why would you buy your niece a car. If she didn't have to pay you back that is what would be happening with extra steps.
Decants from rare vintage perfumes can go for substantial amounts - People make a living off of this.  Your niece decided to defraud you hoping she would never get caught.

I think her parent needs to take a hard look at the morals of her child.
The age of 17 is past the point that you can use the excuse, "She's just a kid." Way past the point. Even though you aren't pressing charges, your sister needs to realize that someone else would and the police would take it seriously as a case of theft.

She probably made the money she was going to use for a car stealing from you, so that excuse doesn't hold up. She didn't earn that money; she stole it. Two different things.
> I said yes, kids make mistakes, and this is a GREAT way for my niece to learn from hers.  
  
NTA - She stole plain and simple, the age shouldn't be a consideration here. She needs to pay you back.
NTA But it might not be a terrible idea to post on her account how she got the samples so that her friends also know what she did and they have to protect their own collections. Tell other family members also. It's possible you're not the only victim.
NTA

Not even sure why you're asking this, to be honest.

>She is lucky that I have no interest in involving the police, small claims, or any of that.

You are aware that if your sister is fine with also torpedoing her relationship with you (since your niece already did), you *aren't* getting restitution without getting the law involved?
Yes, her paying it back __IS__ how she learns her lesson.  As opposed to going to jail instead, since she's a teenager.

Instead of learning that there will be no consequences for stealing 🤷🏾‍♂️

NTA
NTA.  Yes, niece is a kid, but this was not a mistake.  This was a series of choices.  A 17-year-old is old enough to know the difference and pay the consequences.
Easy NTA - Yes she's a teenager but that accounts for why you're willing to give her the pretty light consequences of "only" paying you back for what she stole. Adults would be looking at legal consequences. She's not going to be able to afford a car for college because she got caught stealing and has to make it right, none of that is your fault.
Your sister's attitude is what really pisses me off. To say that she's just a kid? She's 17 freaking years old you know exactly what she was doing. I would never let her in my house again.
NTA.

>Petty or not, I printed out the entire list of what she’d taken, price estimate, and handed it off to my sister (her mom). I said that I expect to be paid back, in full. And of course her fucking sneaky little ass is never allowed in my home again. 

Good on you! On both counts!

>My sister got super pissy with me going on about how my niece is just a kid, kids make mistakes, etc. I said yes, kids make mistakes, and this is a GREAT way for my niece to learn from hers.

You're right. Kids make mistakes and so do adults, and the key thing is to take responsibility, learn from them, and try to repair any damage done.

Your sister made a mistake. She raised a child to think - at 17!!! - that stealing is acceptable. Now she needs to repair the damage done to family relationships and try to set her daughter on the correct course in the little time she has left before her daughter reaches adulthood.

Your niece however...she didn't make a mistake. She did it deliberately. The only thing that was a "mistake" was a) getting caught, and b) thinking her actions were acceptable.
My 17-year old niece trashed our house while house sitting once. I tallied up the damages (around 2000$) and presented her with a bill for the things that was just maliciously broken (a part on my wheel chair that was broken when they raised it down the street and the net for my kids' trampoline that was slashed with a knife) totaling around 100$. Her mother freaked out completely and told me it was my own fault for asking too much of a teenager and forbid me to talk to her.

That teenager is now an adult. She has no job and no education and has even been homeless a while (in a country where homelessness is rare). As soon as something gets hard, she just gives up and quits, and she has never learned to deal with the consequences of her choices.

You will indeed do your niece a favor by teaching her, that actions have consequences. It is understandable that your sister wants to protect her child, but the very best way to do that, is to let her learn that lesson now, when the consequence is just not getting a car and not going to jail.

Eta: NTA - obviously
NTA. Not only did she steal from you, she did it badly, and she shouldn't get to use her stolen money on a car.
NTA; an idea for you though, is to bluff. Unless you've already told them you won't go to cops, they'll be none the wiser. "Niece has x amount of time to pay me back before I escalate to small claims court", just to light a fire under their ass.
NTA. I banned one of my cats from my room for knocking over my nail polish collection (guess you and I both have our special collections, haha), so your 17-year-old niece can face the consequences for stealing your perfumes.
Blast her on her selling page.  She's a thief and a liar...nothing worse than that.  I'd never let her in my house again.
NTA - If your niece is so entrepreneurial why doesn’t she have a job or a legal side hustle? Your sister is just wrong. 17 is almost an adult and she could be in legal trouble if you weren’t so nice. Repayment is not optional. I’m glad the good stuff wasn’t stolen.
[removed]
NTA. She stole from you and needs to pay you back.
Just a kid, my a$$. She's 17 and had enough mental acuity to know the value of what she was stealing and try to start a side hustle selling it online.

She's 100% responsible for her actions here. And even if she weren't, her parents ARE. *Respondeat superior* doctrine means a parent is typically on the hook for a tort inflicted by their minor child.

NTA
N5A - she's 17 soon to be an adult.  She's stealing to earn money for her own needs - yes, time for her to learn a lesson before she takes being a thief into adulthood.
NTA.  If you were to drop it because she is a teenager THAT would teach her the wrong thing!
NTA she was capitalizing on stealing from family... she needs a huge lesson and waiting longer for a car seems fair.
NTA. Your sister should have reprimanded her daughter instead of going for the classic "kids make mistakes" excuse. Even my 5-year-old cousin knows not to touch any of my things without my permission. She's 17, she knows what's right and wrong. She chose to steal.  So get your money back and do not feel bad about it. The niece needs to learn that her actions have consequences. And she's gonna be an adult in a year, that ain't no kid, so, her actions should not be excused
NTA.

Your 17 yr old niece (for all intents and purposes an adult) has never been taught to respect the property rights of others. I learned very young that you never even touch what belongs to someone else without permission.  And Granddad taught me "Whether it's a penny or a million dollars, you're still a thief." But, I'm GenX, and back in those days being a thief was still considered to be a bad thing. 

"You have so much, and I need/want something" is not and can never be a defense to the crime of theft, despite what a huge chunk of the US population believes.

Your niece is a thief. There's no sugarcoating that. And your sister is an accessory after the fact by enabling her. Say a stranger broke into your house and stole the whole collection, and the police caught them before they could fence it. The thief can't just say "Sorry, my bad, here's the perfume back" and not go to jail.  So your niece needs to face some real consequences besides just paying you back. 

My kid? Forget about a car. They're paying you back, and doing as much volunteer community service as you and I decide is appropriate if they want continued financial support from the family.
NTA. I think it might be worth pointing out that you have evidence of what she stole and the value thereof, and because she’s “Just a kid,” you’ve made the choice not to take this to the police and press charges.
NTA - Your sister needs to parent her kid.  Doing something that she knew was wrong dozens of times is not a mistake.  Letting her off the hook is just going to teach her that there are no consequences for her actions.  If she'd kept the money she got from selling your stuff, she wouldn't have to dip into her car fund to pay you back. If she can't do that because she spent it all, taking away her car fund will help her learn to prioritize her spending.  Or your sister can pay you back and make her daughter do chores to pay her back.  But this was a serious crime.  She needs serious consequences.
Would a judge forgive a 17 year old if she stole from a stranger and sold the stuff she got????
I can understand her parents trying to cover for her. But THEY should be paying you instead if they go for this option. You could be more forgiving if she admired your collection and used some on her own in secrecy. But she stole and sold them. It is no different from stealing money or your phone etc.
Definitely NTA
For "she is just a kid" excuse the only right answer is "ok then kids are not allowed to buy or drive a car, so she doesn't need that money, right?"

Bc your sis needs to choose - either is her daughter just small, stupid kid with no responsibility, or she is adult enough to have a car and to own consequences of her actions. But she can't have both.

NTA.
If I were your niece's mother, I would be mortified. Restitution is the least I'd demand from her.
She was just stealing, she was stealing and reselling to make a profit.
Where is the money from selling the stolen goods?
NTA
No. She is extremely lucky you didn't call the police. I know she is your niece. But you are her aunt and she had no problem lying, cheating and stealing from you. Your sister is a terrible parent.

NTA, show your sister these comments.
<<Well little miss entrepreneur failed to realize that her “private” Instagram wasn’t “friends only” or whatever and I saw each and every fucking story with each price and sample she had.>>

INFO: It sounds to me as if she was selling these "samples" over a period of time. Why didn't you put an end to it the first time you saw a sample for sale?
NTA. And I'd be horrified if I was her mother.
17 year olds are getting charged as adults in court. your 17 year old niece can suck it up and be happy you're not involving the police.
Listen, I get that you’re saying that you’re refusing to go to the cops. Fine, I get that. But “reduce how much I gift them,” is absolutely enabling them and proving you don’t have any desire to inflict real consequences. The money your niece made from stealing from you more than covers her losing out on dogwalking. Oh no, she’ll feel it real hard in…. 5-6 months. 

Your sister isn’t willing to torpedo your relationship, because you’ve outright said you’re *not* going to torpedo it. Oh no, she might notice 5 years from now that you gave $5 less per kid for each holiday. But you still gave her money. You’re still giving gifts. You’re the one actively trying to placate her by continuing those gestures and asking for money. It’s essentially putting yourself more in the red in your relationship with them.

You say your sister is willing to ruin the relationship? Then call that bluff. Ruin it. Not reduction in gifts, not one child can’t come in the house unsupervised. No Contact Until You’re Paid. No gifts, no supervision. nothing. That is genuinely the bare minimum of consequences. Anything short of cutting off all cash flow into a family that stole from you is active permission from them to steal from you again in a thief’s eyes. Period. I’m not going to suggest you go to the cops, but seriously. Please be realistic about how you are TA to yourself if you’re just going to “skim a little bit off from future gifts” 
That’s not recouping losses. They’re not owed gifts or payments, or anything, particularly after stealing. You are not getting money back by reducing gifts. You’re just hemorrhaging money to them a LITTLE less slowly, and leaving the door for the other children to learn from your mom and big sister that you can be their next payday too. 
NTA, I’d get a lock for the door and maybe add a camera too
NTA. Spilling milk is an accident. Pre-meditating an excuse to enter your property under false pretences in order to steal, then sell said stolen goods isn't an accident. That's a crime she could get arrested for if you were so inclined to involve the police. It took some planning on her part to pull off, and your sister's reaction is a big indicator of why she felt entitled to do that
>My sister got super pissy with me going on about how my niece is just a kid, kids make mistakes, etc.

This applies to a 6 year old. 17 this does not.

NTA
NTA

  
17 years old is plenty old enough to know stealing is wrong. She was old enough and smart enough and sleezy enough to steal from her own aunt. She's old enough to pay the consequences - and she's darned lucky you aren't pressing charges. I hope you educate her on what could happen. You are being really nice, and merciful. She would be screwed if you were not.
NTA.  You are absolutely correct that this should be a learning experience for her.  "Steal and get away with it" is the wrong lesson.  Your sister's going to regret it when she finds out her kid has been stealing and selling her stuff too.  Never mind the first time she gets a call from the police station.
That mom isn't on your side is abominable. That little miss thief would only have to pay you back is minimal.

NTA
NTA

A completely reasonable life lesson for your niece:
You steal, you don't get a car and you need to pay back for the financial harm you caused.
Idk about most people but when I was a teen I didn't steal because I knew it was wrong. Basically your sister is saying don't blame the teen because she failed as a parent to teach her basic manners and morals. NTA
The little kleptomaniac is months away from being an adult. If she doesn’t face punishment for her actions, there’s no doubt she’ll do this again and next time she can find herself behind bars. Tell your sister this is a HUGE pivotal moment in her daughters life and if her daughter doesn’t have any consequences for her actions & learn and grown from this, your niece is gonna have a record before she’s 19.
NTA.  Aw. Now the  SEVENTEEN year old child she can’t use the HUNDREDS OF DOLLARS she STOLE to buy herself stuff 😢. 

SERIOUSLY???
Info: do you have a whole room for perfume? Like with floor to ceiling shelves filled with bottles and bottles of perfume? Maybe even one of those library ladders on wheels?
NTA - whether you want to involve the police or not, you need to point out to your sister and your niece that this is actually a legal matter, and that they should be well aware that your niece would likely be treated as an adult in a court of law in this case.


You are being very kind, and your sister should be coming down on her like a ton of bricks.
She's just a little kid? Oh great, little kids don't buy cars so she doesn't need to worry about that. NTA
She’s 17, old enough to know better. NTA.
Don't you go enabling her thievery like her worthless mother is
NTA - Your niece should pay you back, and I would post a comment on her Instagram that the perfume was stolen. A good lesson for your niece on why you shouldn't steal, if it were a retail store she would have been arrested for shoplifting.
NTA. 

She is a year, more probably months, from being an adult in the eyes of most countries. She isn't a 13 year old teenager who did something stupid. She knew full well what she was doing. She is upset that there's consequences for her actions.  If she went to someone else's home and stole hundreds of dollars of electronics or money, she would be tried as an adult at this point. There isn't a "just perfume" clause in this either. You worked hard for something you are passionate about (and you share pretty freely).. would her parents be taking this same stance if she stole hundreds of dollars from them? Actually, it's possible she has, and they might not even know. THIS kind of thing is why kids today are so entitled. 

Definitely NTA.
NTA. She stole from you, and your sister, her mother, thinks its fine because its going towards a car? hell no. 

Maybe tell her to get a real job instead of stealing from her aunt?
NTA The police probably wouldn't consider her "just a kid." She needs to parent her "kid" who had a very adult plot.
The fact that she is "just a kid" at 17 goddamn years old tells you all you need to know about her parenting... and is the ONLY reason authorities arent being involved... YET. 

If they fail to pay this back, absolutly take HER to court over it. Lessons learned.
NTA, I was in a similar situation but it was my child who stole. My daughter (16) stole some makeup and perfume from her aunt and cousin, I found out because her husband mentioned that it was missing after a family bbq at their home and they didn’t know who it could be but it was someone in the family. When I got home I scanned my daughter’s room and noticed some stuff we didn’t buy her and when my wife and I questioned her she confessed. I drove her to her aunts house and had her come clean and made her pay them back with birthday money that she had saved. She cried the whole time and I was totally ok with that as I explained that she got off light as far as consequences go and that she created an environment where she would be a suspect if anything went missing in the future.
When trust is broken, it can never be truly repaired.
Nta. Tell them she is paying you back or getting a criminal record. 

Of blessings set before you, make your choice and be content.
^^^^AUTOMOD  ***Thanks for posting! This comment is a copy of your post so readers can see the original text if your post is edited or removed. This comment is NOT accusing you of copying anything. Read [this](https://www.reddit.com/r/AmItheAsshole/wiki/faq#wiki_post_deletion) before [contacting the mod team](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FAmItheAsshole)***

(Note: I’m not involving the police, suing anyone, etc. Please don't try to argue with me about this or "convince" me why I should.)

I have a perfume collection that I started when I was a teenager slinging burritos as my first job. I have over 400 bottles at this point, I take great pride in my collection, and I use it. I’m also happy to give people decants (samples) of most of my bottles, let them sample a spray or two, give some bottles as gifts, etc. 

What I have a HUGE fucking issue with is my 17 year old niece coming into my home under the guise of walking my dog, decanting bottles on her own and SELLING THE SAMPLES to her little friends. She thinks that because I have so many bottles, I wouldn’t notice some missing or getting massive dents in them. Well little miss entrepreneur failed to realize that her “private” Instagram wasn’t “friends only” or whatever and I saw each and every fucking story with each price and sample she had.

I tallied that shit up and got a pretty good estimate based on cost per ounce. Thankfully she mostly picked the “Tiktok famous” perfumes like Bianco Latte and Escapade Gourmand and didn’t go for the most rare, niche perfumes. She did snatch an entire 2.5 oz bottle of Baccarat Rouge, though, which runs $300+ at most retailers, as well as full bottles of perfumes you can get at Sephora. Like Marc Jacobs Daisy, Burberry Her Elixir, Flowerbomb, etc. 

Petty or not, I printed out the entire list of what she’d taken, price estimate, and handed it off to my sister (her mom). I said that I expect to be paid back, in full. And of course her fucking sneaky little ass is never allowed in my home again. My sister got super pissy with me going on about how my niece is just a kid, kids make mistakes, etc. I said yes, kids make mistakes, and this is a GREAT way for my niece to learn from hers.

Their argument is that now the money she was going to use for a car has to go towards paying me back. I don’t care. She is lucky that I have no interest in involving the police, small claims, or any of that. But AITA, because she IS a teenager?

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/AmItheAsshole) if you have any questions or concerns.*
NTA.

17 is way too old to be “just a kid.” This was insanely premeditated. She didn’t just take it for her own use, she sold it! For money! Honestly, the fact that you aren’t pressing charges considering you’ve been so carefully collecting evidence should be seen as a boon by your sister. That wouldn’t have flown if she’d done this to a stranger.
I stole a bunch of stuff from a store over a few months when I was 11. Eventually got caught, the bill was £160 more or less. Luckily I wasn't prosecuted, my Dad paid for it all, and I got a paper round to pay him back. This led to me building a great work ethic which has led to a very happy adulthood.

This could be a wonderful opportunity for her development if it's handled well! Obviously you're NTA.
NTAH she must pay you back.  After that and a sincere apology, you let it go.  

Our kid stole a ring when she was little.  Maybe 13? Anyway it turned out to be a family friend's ring from her deceased mother.  Yeah.  That was awful.    But, ring returned and apologies made and life went on.  We don't tease her about it and she is now a super honest trustworthy wonderful grown woman. 

Good luck, op.  And stand firm, you are correct it has to be dealt with not just shrugged off.
I have a 16 yo, if she did that, she damn well would be responsible for paying her aunt back. But I’m actually teaching my kids there are consequences for their actions.
Wonder what else she took and you don’t know since you’re laser focused on the scents? I would look around the entire living space.
Your sister and her very-close-to-adult daughter should be thanking you AND paying you back with interest. Your sister and niece are way out of line. You made your decision re: involving the police. That is your call. I can see your sister trying to excuse away her daughter’s behavior but eventually they will each be caught, your sister for aiding and abetting her daughter. You now have evidence of their morals. Don’t forget it
Tell sister dearest that either she pay you back, they pay you back, or you are going to the police. 

If they don’t you should go to the police, you’d be doing her a favor. If she gets away with this it will make her bolder and she’s going to get in real trouble.
I would tell my sister that you are going easy on her daughter. She stole from you, sold stolen property and then, being the genius all teens are, she actually did the crime, selling stolen property, on social media. You are simply making her replace what she stole. If you wanted to you could let her whole future messed up by making her face the consequences in full. Instead of letting her get a police record you are simply requiring her to pay the damages. I would ask if she would rather learn the lesson by paying you or talking to the police.
Sure, "kids make mistakes." But every mistake has a consequence. Little mistakes might be "inconsequential," like a spelling mistake, but failures in judgment often have grave consequences. It's a spectrum. Burglarizing people and selling the stolen property is a horrible choice to make and the girl needs to understand that there is a fairly severe consequence for that, whether you make it a legal problem for her or just demand some other kind of satisfaction.

Also, at 17, she's less than a year away from being a legal adult. Kids sometimes are "tried as adults" for heinous crimes, but over-18 year-olds are never tried as minors. She needs to grow up and get used being treated as an adult or she's gonna wake up one day and find adulting hard.

You're NTA. The girl and her parents are though!

And I don't know if you'll be able to ever be compensated, but regardless, I think every year, for her birthday, or really, any time a gift is expected of you, you should fully comply with custom, and send your niece a shoe-box-sized present wrapped appropriately. And inside, every time, cradled lovingly, a sample vial of Guy Laroche Drakkar Noir.

ETA: ...and then post the story in r/pettyrevenge.
Nta, but her parents need a serious talking to if they think she should keep the money. 

Your sister is a shit parent sorry, she may have even known and thought this was an easy road

I dont see how this is getting enforced tho so good luck getting it back
I’m just curious how the 400 bottles of perfume works. When I have a bottle longer than about a year, it doesn’t really smell like anything anymore.
NTA whilst 17 year old can be tried as a juvenille, they are also old enough to be legally criminally responsible as an adult. And as its multiple thefts over a long period of time - that steps it up a few categories.

Give her a fixed time limit to repay everything, otherwise its going to the police.  And give her a break down of what the criminal charges are likely to be, and a criminal record for theft will impact her opportunities in life.
Let her buy a car, go steal pieces of it, and sell them t
Intil all your money is paid back.
Why come to Reddit if you aren't going to do anything about this little thief??  She STOLE from you and made a profit to boot.  If you aren't willing to press charges or sue to get your money back, then don't complain.
NTA. And honestly, if they don’t pay, threaten a police report. That way either they can pay you back and everything is good or she gets a mark on her record. Her choice 😊
NTA, she HAS to pay, the fact that her mother says she is just a kid with almost 18 years old means she has coddled her all her life, and when she enters to the real adult world and she does something similar to another person and that person does truly press charges and she can't run to mommy anymore, the mom will be crying asking herself where she went wrong. Teach her a lesson, a very good lesson about consequences.
Nta. Old enough to know what’s wrong.
NTA she stole from you and sold what she stole, and was stupid enough to have evidence.  She's 17, not 4, she knew what she was doing.  

You must be paid back in full.  I also hope you changed the locks or put up a camera or something.
It was not a mistake.  This was planned robbery. NTA
NTA And you should remind your sister that a felony record would fuck up little miss side-gig's life way worse that having to walk or bike to class, as a side opinion, from somebody that lives in a snowbelt collage centric town (35% of the pop.) THEY DON'T NEED FUCKING CARS!!!!!
NTA. Looking the other way when kids do shit like this is why those kids will keep doing the same sort of bullshit. Then when they are adults and get caught stealing and end up with a criminal record, their life will be fucked. They are doing her no favours. And there is no damn way OP should be out hundreds of dollars.
Updateme
She’s not a child though, she’s 17. To steal from her own family is low! She needs to learn the consequences of her actions. It sounds like her mom has always let her get away with this kind of stuff. Maybe is she was more disciplined she wouldn’t have done this. NTA
NTA. You satisfied the “she’s just a kid” part by deciding not to charge her for theft. That was kind of you. (I have a niece that’s 2 yrs older but quite similar, running a fb marketplace scam taking deposits on things, her parents would definitely defend or cover for her, and if I was her victim I’d charge her). 
The 3 R’s will be incredibly useful for the little scam artist  to learn here - when you wrong someone, you take Responsibility, you show Remorse for your actions, and you make Reparation. Paying you back is the third R.
What your niece did was EGREGIOUSLY wrong. Obviously, paying you back for what she took is the first step in making it right.

You also deserve an apology (which you probably won't get). At least she may be so ashamed by being caught she won't try anything like it again.
NTA. I was a teenager, and I didn't steal. A lot of teenagers don't. No excuse.
If she can steal from you, she's probably stolen before.  She will get caught, if the parents don't step in now. Your niece will big in big doo doo , when the police get involved.
Nta

Your niece is about to be an adult out In the world and needs a reality check. 

She didnt make a mistake,  she made a plan to walk the dogs and brought the bottles to fill. She knew it was wrong and stole to make a few bucks
100% NTAH if anything you are actually being fairly merciful, she isn’t a kid she is 17 she is practically an adult she is absolutely old enough to know better, this wasn’t some misunderstanding, she blatantly  stole from  you and then sold her stolen merchandise, your sister needs to be less worried about getting a new car and more concerned about acting like a real parent and teaching her kid the consequences of her actions not just brushing it under the rug and trying to write it off as a kids will be kids schtick. My daughter is 3 and even she understands you don’t take shit that’s not yours period.
NTA Maybe take her to small claims court?
NTA. If she is just a kid and can't make good decisions,  she doesn't need to be driving..
NTA...The fact that it was all over her Instagram shows her sheer stupidity. She does deserve an award...a Darwin Award.
Oh poor baby has to use the money to pay you back instead of buy a car with the money she stole. Did you even get an apology from your niece? Good for you! NTA but your sister and your niece are.
NTA. A 17 is not 'just a kid' making a mistake. This kid should know better than to steal from someone. She's lucky the only consequence you're asking for is money. Who knows what would have happened were it someone else who would ask for something harsher?? It's a hard lesson to learn but one she has to learn quickly before it can potentially bring worse consequences on her (especially since she's nearly 18)
NTA take her parents to small claims court if need be. Actions have consequences.
NTA

She’s not a kid.

She’s a thief.
It sounds like the only way you're getting that money is if you threatened to file a police report. You don't have to *do* it, but that threat is the only thing that will make your sister pay you back and deal with her kid.
17 yrs old. Was she not told as a young'un that you shouldn't take things that don't belong to you? Was she not made aware by parents, others, and society as a whole that stealing is wrong and a crime? 

I would argue that it is probably impossible that she doesn't know that taking things that don't belong to you but belong to someone else is wrong and a crime. What do you think she will learn if she has no consequences?
NTA  Regardless what the amount she owes you, the police involvement would be more expensive long term and in more ways that just money.
NTA, here after 16 they are judged as an adult in court, it's not even an argument. She knew what she was doing is wrong.
NTA and hopefully she'll learn from this.  This isn't an 8 y/o spraying themselves and their doll collection, this is someone just shy of being a legal adult straight up stealing and trying to profit off of it.
Nope, NTA. She better learn now what FAFO means before she gets herself into serious trouble. Car can wait until you're repaid in full.
She's 17, not 7. The "just a kid" argument might have held some weight if she was 7. She knew exactly what she was doing. She what she was doing was wrong.

Her parents have no right to get pissy with you, she was caught stealing! They should be mortified and going ape shit with her. And the whole sob story about her not getting a car now? Absolute BS! These are the consequences of her actions. She could have gotten a job and saved for her car the right way, but instead she chose the easy, illegal option. 

NTA. I hope her parents come to their senses.
Nta 17 it's old enough to know better than to steal from people
NTA, the only 'mistake' she made was not properly locking up her Instagram, lol, everything else was deliberate theft.
NTA, teenagers are old enough to make them accountable for actions like these.


I guess, if your sister or niece are not willing to pay for what she took from you, her bithday and chrismas presents for the upcoming years are vouchers for a part by part reduction of the dept.
Absolutely NTA. My perfume collection is a fraction of a fraction the size of yours and the thought of anyone running off with any of them is chilling. A whole bottle of Baccarat Rouge? Yikes on bikes.
NTA. Stealing and selling the stolen goods is not a mistake, it is a crime.
NTA 


But since you're "not involving the police, suing anyone, etc." and you're getting zero cooperation, then you just need to accept what's happened and reassess how you'll move forward as far as family is concerned. 
NTA. She didn’t earn that money. They are lucky you don’t file a police report. Maybe send an officer over to explain potential repercussions.
NTA  
What a sneaky little ass your niece is
NTA but serious question here: how do you prevent your perfumes from going bad? It's impossible to use 400 bottles of perfumes fast. Over the years I found some of mine smell absolutely disgusting after some time of being unused.
NTA also how about not being a thief, family or not a thief is a thief and she should be told that by her mother then being held accountable for her actions and her thievery BY PAYING YOU BACK!!!! Wtf is wrong with people and their parenting, just yikes...  So no 100% NTA
Ask your sister if it would be okay if  her kid went into her jewelry box and took a few rings to help pay for her car, or would that be theft? Or is she just a kid?
She’s not a kid and she’s old enough to know better.
NTA! The niece is a thief, and her mom is an enabler. If there isn't movement on repayment, file a police report. That will be a lesson neither of them will forget.
110% NTA. I would be just as livid. Your sister should be completely on your side too, and thanking her lucky stars that you aren't involving the police.
I’m also not sure I agree with a seventeen year old being “just a kid”. I mean, your sister knows that at seventeen your niece knew what she was doing was wrong. Being seventeen doesn’t mean there shouldn’t be consequences for her choices.
NTA.

She's not a little kid who absconded with a pretty.

She is a near-adult who stole your belongings to sell. That wasn't an impulsive mistake, that was a plan.

Don't let it go. Shame is your best weapon here.

>My sister got super pissy with me going on about how my niece is just a kid, kids make mistakes, etc

If your sister has any shame. Guess it's obvious where the trash behaviour comes from.
NTA

This wasn’t a mistake, this was her idea of a business. She should not get to use the money for what she wants, that would just reward the behaviour. She absolutely should be paying you back. 

If she has a key, take it away and change your locks just incase. Your sister and her family should never go in your house again since they’re all ok with theft and as your niece becomes an adult next year, they’ll just cover for her. 
Their argument is the money she got FROM STEALING FROM YOU is going towards a car? Ffs.
Use of the phrase "They're just a kid" is proof that the person using it is an untrustable idiot. NTA
17 is old enough to know stealing is wrong. I'm with you on not involving cops, and it sucks your relationship with family is being stressed with this.  She should absolutely pay you back. She could start with whatever she made selling your perfume.
NTA fuck that kid
Extremely jealous of your collection. I made sure to read my husband this one so my 20 perfume collection is put into perspective haha
NTA. 
Kids DO make mistakes. Like maybe wanting to try a perfume and dropping the bottle or something that is an accident. Not setting up an illegal business. 

Frankyl the best moment for her to learn from you filing a report with the police is now, when she’s still a minor. Past 18 years old larceny is not as kindly looked upon.
NTA 

Why doesn't she skip the middleman and just steal a car?
First you are absolutely correct to not want her in your home, she not only stole from you but apparently instead of paying you back you get guilted about her not being able to get a car from the profit she made from what she stole from you. 

When I was 10(ish) I lived by a small trailer park and accidentally busted a window out with a basketball. I didn't run to my parents or run and hide, I went and knocked on the door, apologized, and offered to pay them back either slowly with the very limited money I rarely got or in labor. 

It is a matter of character and she obviously doesn't have much right now. Maybe you showing her that there are indeed negative consequences for her actions will help to build her character. I would stay strong on her being banned from your home, at least for a good long time. Also remain adamant that you be paid back. I know you dont wish to involve law enforcement and I get it. I just have a bad feeling that since you are already being told that if you are paid back she can't get a car that if you continue to insist they are just not going to pay you back and instead enforce her bad behavior and let her get a car with her stolen money.
NTA. She intentionally stole your property, marketed it and created a business.  Her parents are in denial and are enabling her criminal enterprises. 

Although people want you to file a police report, it wouldn't do any good. She's a minor and the DA probably wouldn't get involved because it's a non-violent, low level crime.

She or her parents need to immediately pay you back in full, quickly.  The thief doesn't deserve a car.  She can steal one when she's 18.

What will be your sister's excuse the next time her golden child is caught for committing a crime?  At 18, she will no longer be a "kid who makes mistakes."
Nta, 17 is not a kid anymore. At 17 she can have her own kid actually. Get a display case that locks. This probably won't be the last time this happens. Now she knows and her friends will know what you have and where to find it. A lot of burglaries are done by people who know the homeowner or know people who know the homeowner.  
Prepare for this to snowball and protect your assets. Lastly,  insure your collection.
NTA because she IS a thief. Change your locks and do not allow her back on your property
No.   She got money from selling your stuff.  Does your sister know that.   That kid needs to learn a lesson and it doesn’t look like her momma has been teaching her responsibilities and that actions have consequences.  And what about the stealing???
YTA

By not going to the police. She will not face the consequences of her actions. Thus, you are reinforcing her bad behavior. She will likely do something similar to someone else.
NTA. She’s lucky she got caught now, by You. instead of being 18 and getting caught AT Sephora. 

Your sister should thank her lucky stars that someone in the family (You) is making her daughter take responsibility for her own actions. 

Gold star to you, auntie!
YTA for letting her get away with theft. Thanks for inflicting her on the rest of us.
This is beyond stupid. Oh no my -insert relationship here- is a worthless thief but I'm NOT going to the police because -absolutely no valid reason - I'll just make them pay me back. How? With what court order? They're gonna laugh in your face and do it again. I hope the worthless thief breaks every damn one of your precious collection. Cry about it. ESH
Your note makes you look like TA. You’re not gonna get your money back by just printing a letter. The mom and your niece have no interest in paying you back, and now your niece is going to get away with stealing. You didn’t teach her anything by not pursuing it further. As a matter of fact, you’re encouraging her behavior. Get a backbone next time. Hope your niece is enjoys her new car with the money she made stealing from you! 🤷🏼‍♀️
YTA for not telling the police, or at least threatening it. She’s plenty old enough to know what she did was wrong and, IMO, even letting her off with just paying you back will not act as a deterrent.
YTA for refusing to press charges.
NTA.  That her parents think she is still entitled to buy a car using funds from her criminal enterprise is wild!  She should be paying you back plus restitution. And every time she gets on the bus for the next two years she should be reminded that stealing in wrong.

As an avid fragrance collector I am particularly incensed by this because it was so avoidable.  Many in the fragrance collecting hobby know we have more perfume than can be used in a lifetime and actually enjoy sharing with others.  If my niece came to me with interest in the hobby and in decanting frags for her friends, I would have been overjoyed to share a new hobby with her, and would happily open my collection for her to share the love of fragrance with others.   Although obviously would expect she is paying the cost!   Even if OP did not want to allow this - she could have shared knowledge that would help her niece build a legitimate business - one where we pay for the product we sell.

One more note but - giving the benefit of the doubt to the sister - often parents respond out of embarrassment, rather than truly believing that their kid's behavior is ok.  Hopefully that is the case here and there is not a long term rift between OP and her sister!
Also if her hobby is theft, enabling her to take her racket farther out is a very poor choice. She can’t be trusted at home, she can’t be trusted to leave home in her own.
> The money she has for the car is made from selling perfume she stole from you.

I was floored they tried to make this argument. I mean, seriously? They're trying to suggest the thief is the real victim here? Because she can't get a car if she can't use the proceeds from the sale of OP's stolen goods????

How the hell is the sister not furious with her daughter? Seems to have zero intention of punishing her, and is arguing they should be able to keep the money from what she stole!?!
I'm wondering if the niece significantly undervalued the "samples" and now would have to use money she had saved from other sources to fully reimburse OP...

sucks to not only be a thief but a shit business person too.  

She might be able to learn multiple lessons from this little stunt.
It in no way justifies the behavior or response, but I'm assuming the money that's "going to the car" is from the parents not the daughter.  If the parents were accounting for the money the stolen perfume, they would have known about the theft before this point.  I think in their minds, they were going to let the daughter keep the money she made from theft (or it was already spent) and they would pay back the cost of the perfume from the money they set aside for the car.

The parents need to pay it out of the girl's car fund and tell the girl they're not putting a cent into it again until she pays it back.
The behavior is so repulsive, I don’t know how I would interact with my niece or sister after that point. 

The lesson is, it’s okay to steal as long as you can get the victim to not act. Points if it is someone in the family who knows and loves you because they will feel more conflicted.

Great parenting. That kid is going to end up in jail because they will minimize the severity of theft and try to do it again to make another buck. And mom is validating that way of earning money… disgusting
Also: “acquire sample bottles”.  Unless OP had a big stash of sample bottles and the niece stole those too, then that means she had to get on Amazon and invest money into stealing.   
I want to add - this is likely not the first time she’s stolen something. People don’t go from never stealing to devising and executing a plan like this, there are steps in between. This is either just the first time she’s gotten caught or her parents know and have been covering for her for a while.
Yeah imo a teenage "mistake" would be like... having a friend over while dogsitting and they break something. Like, ok maybe they shouldn't have a friend over and breaking something was on accident, so that's something to learn from. But this was 100% thought through. I would think so differently about this person after this, it's scheming, underhanded behavior
You skipped the part where she had to go out and acquire the sample bottles in advance and remember to pack them when she went over to hee aunt's house.
She also had to plan it enough to know her friends would want to buy the perfume
if she was shoplifting or in this case if she had taken a whole bottle of op's i might even be able to see it more generously as impulsive bad decision/youthful indiscretion. this was a carefully crafted plan to steal, profit, and get away with it (with the major blunder of having it up on public socials). there's zero "mistake" here. it's so egregious i almost want to call op an ah for conceding that it's a kid mistake. nta.
Your comment should be much higher.
This teen is lucky the lesson only involves having to pay back what she stole, instead of having charges pressed. OP is being nicer about this than a lot of people would. 17 is way too old to excuse stealing. If she tries this in less than a year with the wrong person, she will end up with a criminal record for the rest of her adult life. 
100%. She's a young adult about to go to college and have a car. She knows stealing is wrong and if she doesn't well there is no time like the present. She started a criminal enterprise on her own with marketing and distribution. That's pretty adult.
Courts prosecute younger people for crimes. Theft is a crime. The brat can pay the consequences of her actions and do it without the police - and should be thankful for a life course correction that doesn’t follow her forever via a record.
Mom says the niece to buy a car with the money. It's likely she wants OP to give her a pass because she's tired of driving her daughter around. 
She’s less than a year away from being an adult, that’s not her just “being a kid”, and she can’t fix what she’s done either. Even if she could get back the samples (which would mean her taking the fall) there’s many that would have been used because it’s perfume.
This is wild because when I was 10 and spent time at my grandparents, I would sneak candy and soda from my grandpa's movie stash. I hid the trash under my bed, cause little me didn't think far enough ahead about what I'd actually do with it.  Eventually he found my pile and made me do a full day of manual labor to "pay him back." Keep in mind we're talking a few bags of gummy bears, maybe a 12 pack of soda over the course of a full year. I was shoveling holes, moving his construction materials around the property, cleaning dog shit.

Not that I would ever wish that on anyone else, but quite honestly, I think OP is going pretty easy on her family. I certainly learned my lesson, hopefully her niece will too.
This 100%
This is well-put. I would buy the “just a kid” excuse if she saw a bottle she’d been coveting from TikTok & sprayed it on herself without asking — 17 year olds don’t have great impulse control.

But this was extremely deliberate.
Exactly. The money she’s using to save for the car is the result of ill gotten gains.
This is part of what bugs me! If she had come to me and asked me if she could sell a handful of her friends some samples, I might have entertained the idea. I know getting samples for niche perfumes is a hassle. But nope, she screwed herself out of that one.
This and the “made a mistake” had me rolling my eyes so hard. 

This was not a mistake, it was an elaborate multi-step plan that she put a great deal of thought into. And she never mentioned the plan to any of the adults in her life because she knew it was wrong. That’s not a mistake.
I think it’s called “fencing “ not entrepreneurial skills
You said it perfectly.  She created a business selling stolen goods.  There's no way the sister can ignore that one, although she'll try.
“Mistake” lol
And involving her friends in receiving stolen property too.
Oh I hate the "he/she is just a kid"

Last time I checked 17 is not a kid per se.  This wasn't a mistake. She knew what she was doing was wrong but went ahead and did what she did.  It's more of a piss take especially if she has money set aside for a car.  Hopefully you do get reimbursed for what she stole from you.

You're definitely NTA.
Not to mention, at 17 she is less than 12 months from being an adult. Yes, kids make mistakes, but this was a thought out and planned "mistake", so not really a "mistake".
17 is a good age to learn about paying for your goods before selling them. Would her mom be as ok with it if she took her jewelry and sold it?
They say good fences make good neighbors.
What she did was a pretty *fragrant* violation.
Agree. She is not "just a kid" anymore. She is an adolescent. By age 17 she knows right from wrong and what stealing means and what morals are.
Your niece took advantage of your generosity and crossed a serious boundary by stealing from you. It’s perfectly reasonable to expect her or her parents to pay you back for what she took. This is a valuable lesson for her about respecting other people's property and holding her accountable is part of that. Your sister might be upset, but it sounds like she needs to understand the importance of addressing this behavior rather than dismissing it.
"the money she saved toward a car" is money she stole from you. NTA
Right like if she had stolen from a store or a stranger would they be saying this? She's committing crimes to pay for her car instead of working a job like a decent human being
> Of course it has to go to paying you back

Her niece can sell off her mom's stuff!
And the money came from selling her aunt's perfume.
Is she buying the car using money from stolen perfume?
Right, niece and sister need to understand that this COULD be much more impactful than just having to pay back/return stolen perfume. Depending on the total monetary value, this could even be a federal crime. She’s DAMN lucky OP just wants her to learn a lesson and not destroy her life. Others will not be so lenient.
If OP doesn't involve the police, there's a high chance she'll steal again and get caught when she's over 18. It's not like she was clever, and clearly her parents don't see any real harm in it.

At the very least she should be scared of the police and OP has made sure she's not.

The niece will learn nothing if there are no repercussions.
I am soooo thankful that she doesn't have an eye for vintage perfumes and only took the popular stuff.
And the parent needs to look inward at why they are deeming this “No big deal”. Whenever I catch my kid doing something sneaky it’s a BFD because I’m trying to raise someone with sound morals and values. 

NTA and your sister is failing your niece.
NTA perhaps the parents knew about their daughter’s plan and condoned it or even put daughter on it
I would use that argument with sister and explain how lenient this is being handled.
I bet you to her parents when she does something wrong that they don't care about then she's "just a kid" but if she does something they don't like then I bet she's suddenly an adult or "almost an adult".
If it was a serious crime, like assault or murder, she could be charged as an adult. That has life long consequences, affecting travel and career.


She is very lucky her aunt is just asking for the money back.
She stole with the full intent to profit.  Niece is pure garbage.  Sister is pure garbage to enable nice.  OP is NTA and well entitled to be repaid for what was stolen.
Ohhhh this is such a good idea. I hadn't considered this. I know at least one of her friends has a mom who is into perfume as well and has a few niche fragrances. Thanks, I would not have considered this.
For all we know she might have told her friends and they might rob their family to help her for a cut of the profits.
If you agree, not to press criminal charges against her and she can just pay you back, then I would recommend that you set up a contract with her. Put in the date, your names and your addresses and write down what happened that she stole from you on these specific dates, name the products And how much she owes you. You write down in this contract that she has to pay you back until date X. 

if that doesn’t happen, you can use this contract for filing criminal charges.
Yes, I'm aware.
Any reasonably intelligent twelve year old knows (or should know) that stealing is wrong. And that's a human standard, not a religious or legal standard.
My MIL was a mother of two in her age.
Baby —> toddler —> kid —> preteen —> teen —> young adult (18-29) —> adult —> middle aged —> elderly 

That is not a kid 

That’s a teen 1 year from being a legal adult 

A minor? Yes

A kid? Hell no 

You don’t treat a 17 year old like a 10 year old 

She’s not playing with toys…… buying clothes in the kids section
How about the niece having to delay college for a year, and spending it doing volunteer work in the community?  Sounds fair to me.
What does your sister or SIL say now?
She probably won't take any action besides talk. And we will all learn someone needs spinal surgery.
You should've called small claims on your cat! haha
Her car money probably comes for the perfume she stole... losing it is the very minimum here!
No- she's 100% stealing for her WANTS, not her needs. I'm pretty sure OP would have made sure she had food, toiletries, etc. if she were really in dire straits.
[deleted]
> Where is the money from selling the stolen goods?

Going towards getting a car for the thief, apparently. OP is the bad guy too - because if they demand to be compensated for the stolen property, then she won't have enough for the car!!!!

The thief is the REAL VICTIM here, you see /s
The first time I saw her selling one, it was of a perfume that I'd gifted her for Christmas. So it made sense. It's a popular fragrance, especially among young people. It wasn't until a while later that I saw her selling samples of fragrances she absolutely did not have.
I guess I wasn't precise enough with what I said, but I'm not intending to give them any gifts (with the exception of her little sister) until the money is recouped. I'd usually spend $1,000+ on them all each Christmas.
And I need to be clear to you OP, this is from experience. My mom’s best friend was just like your sister, and her eldest son just like your niece. They were inseparable, literally living in our home for more than a year. A small theft was discovered here and there, and my mom tried the same approach, tried to demand being paid back, but still tried to keep that door open. It lead to the friend stealing between $3000 & $10k (due to the nature of the theft it was hard to know exactly) over the course of years, the same way your niece did, in bits and pieces. She never involved the cops, for the record. But the only way it stopped was for the friend to get cut off. 

Your sister has this attitude for a reason. I love people. I think people have the inherent nature to be good. But people who take advantage of you do so for a reason. You leaving the door open does not negate this reason. Your sister allowing this is as much a mistake as your niece doing the crime. 
I’m wondering if she’s dog walking for other families if she’s stealing from them too. 
Haha, I do not! My perfume is all stored in custom-built cabinet with doors. I wish I could have them all on display (I do have a monthly shelf, seasonal shelf, etc for short-term display).
Haha, I too am so curious about the logistics of this. The niece obviously lame and needs taught a lesson. I can't believe sister is ok with her daughter buying a car with funds she got from breaking family trust and stealing from them. 

But! What is with all the bottles? What do you do with them? Does this mean I can wear a bottle I recently found left over that was my favorite 20 years ago? Aside from teen trends being annoying, what did they even want with the perfume?
Proper storage is key! I have custom built cabinetry. Make sure to keep yours out of the sun.
Some of them probably have gone "bad" but are still worth money, or I just like them. I have different perfumes for collecting and wearing!
The poor parenting choices probably are the reason how they raised a thief for a daughter
Well the money the niece made from selling stolen perfume went to SOMETHING. Unless she blew it all on drugs. She’ll have to cough up that money somehow either by herself or with her parents help if she can’t get all the money herself
NTA. Your niece is learning that it is ok to steal from family because nothing will be done.  I would be tempted to warn all the family that niece is a thief and your sister supports her being a thief.  Then let them deal with the consequences.
Yeah did the parents just not notice that this kid was all of a sudden getting extra pocket money without a job? I would 100% notice if my kid was getting deliveries from amazon and suddenly socking away a ton of money for a car or buying fun stuff outside of allowance or whatever
Almost willing to bet money on option number 2
Exactly
Yeah this was definitely premeditation.
At 17 she could end up with a criminal record now if her aunt decided to involve the police. Sometimes people can get juvenile records expunged but that's not always the case.
Depending where this is, that would be the best least VIOLENT outcome for her. In some parts of the world, if someone knows your stealing from them, or HAVE stolen from them in the past; they don’t even BOTHER with a legal approach they just go straight to kicking the persons’ A S S.
exactly, she is a year away from being an adult. does her mom want her to go into adulthood thinking its okay to steal, and that theres no repercussions to that? poor parenting for sure. if it was my kid I’d gladly would comply with OP, I wouldn’t want to raise a thief.
I'm pretty sure Mommy and Daddy will have a much more difficult time convincing her roommates not to prosecute their precious little princess when she starts helping themselves to their valuables
She wants to buy a car with the money she saved up from stealing from OP.
I'd be asking mom what her little angel stole from her parents to sell for her car "savings" fund.
This is a great way to learn, you are so right! This is a character building core memory if she has consequences. NTA by any measure!
Next person might not let her off so easily.


She has to learn the lesson now so it sticks. 


She might get juvie, community service and made to pay. And it won't permanently affect her future. She gets away with this and pulls a similar stunt with someone else in a year or so and she might end up in jail and with a record. 




You should be cruel to be kind. 
I like how they’re saying that money is earmarked for a car. How much of her “car money” did she earn selling your stolen perfume?
I don't know what state you're in, but here in Massachusetts theft of property with a value over $250 is grand larceny, which is a felony and punishable by five years in prison. I know you're not taking the legal route, but it's a good talking point when you explain to your sister that your sweet little niece isn't a kid, she's a criminal. Your sister is a terrible parent.
Your sister seems to be missing the fact that her car money IS your money. Literally.
My cousin was bailed out of every mess he got himself into by his parents. He is just a kid was the excuse. He is now almost 50 and his parents have raised his kids with 3 different women and he can't hold a job down to save his life. Hold her feet to the fire it will make her become a decent adult instead of a perpetual delinquent child the rest of her life. NTA you are actually more of a parent than her parents.
I know you said you won't involve the law, but you should use the possibility as a threat/stern warning that you could, and how that might affect your little entrepreneurial niece.
This is felony level theft.

If you pressed charges it would affect her ability to get accepted to university. 

Tell her mother that.
Penhaligon discontinued The Uncompromising Sohan, if ANYONE sprayed it even just once, there would be hell to pay. 

NTA OP but I don’t have your tolerance for this kinda poop. All the best 🙌🏼😗.

INFO: are any of the perfumes taken discontinued?
What’s to stop her from doing the same at some kind of retail job? Or if she babysits or walks dogs for someone else? She’s lucky you didn’t involve the police.
I think you are doing a way better job of being a parent in this instance than her actual parents are. Actions have consequences. So far her parents are happy to have the consequences fall on you lest poor baby not have a car. She’ll deal. There’s buses and bicycles and UBERs and rides from friends and lesser, shittier cars than she would have gotten if she didn’t steal
Even if she is too young to understand the gravity of what she did, there is still someone who needs to answer for a child mistake. Their parents.

Frankly, they aren’t going to listen to your demand. This will likely just escalate to the relationship ending because “Her aunt was mad she used her perfume and cut us out because of it!”. Sounds like you have more than enough evidence to take it to the police for petty theft. Tell them they have 24 hours to pay the amount lost or you go to the police and she has to pay anyway and now has a record. 

She pays and loses the car? Appropriate consequence. Her parents pay and punish her. Also appropriate.

If you’re worried about the relationship being damaged over this, it’s already done. But this way you have court documents proving what she did wasn’t some little thing, whereas right now your sister will probably (successfully) just paint you as the villain for exaggerating the situation and going after your poor niece.

NTA
She's also 17. She's not a kid anymore, she's almost an adult. She should already know right from wrong and chose to do the wrong thing.

Letting her get away with this will only enforce the idea that this was okay to do.
If you’re interested in taking the really high road (way up the mountain), you could take the approach of encouraging a legitimate approach to the business/hussle she’s created. Help her select and BUY bottles of desirable perfumes and then resell decants at a profit.

Of course she needs to pay you back for what she stole, but you could try turning it around and help her create a legitimate business out of it to actually be able to afford the car she wants. This might also help your sister lower her guard a little.
I'm wondering if your sister was in on this since she's defending her daughter stealing your property. Were they brainstorming on how your niece could make easy quick money and your perfume collection came up???
Yeah, a “mistake” is accidentally knocking over a bottle and breaking it. This was a criminal enterprise. Anything that involves oceans 11 level heist planning and execution over weeks or months is not a “mistake,” it’s larceny.
I'm also a perfumista. What she did was devious, conniving, underhanded and illegal.  She isn't a three year old stealing a couple cookies.  If she escapes serious consequences for these acts, the message will be that stealing and treachery are perfectly fine.   You are doing the right thing by insisting she pay you back.  Her parents are terrible for not being 100% behind you.  I'm guessing they raised her wrong and that's why she's a liar and a thief.
I don't understand your viewpoint at all, but if you aren't willing to file a police report, then there's no point in coming to reddit. She's 17, not 7, and you aren't doing her any favors by not having her face the consequences of her actions. Without that threat in your back pocket, there is nothing to compel them to actually get you your money. And this whole post was a waste of time.
NTA - but if you want to get repaid, you could use the scare tactic if they keep denying paying you back that "I have thought this over and am going to go to the police, so the choice is yours either pay me back or be arrested" - just hope they don't call your bluff and at 17 your niece is practically an adult so the kid escape doesn't work
You got to ask for permission not forgiveness. Did they even say sorry?
Were you paying her to walk the dog on top of all this? NTA. I would never expect one of my nibblings to do something like this, but you better believe I wouldn't just say "kids will be kids" if they did. 

Up to you if you workout a payment plan or reduce the total, but either way, NTA.

Edit: typos
What pisses me off the most is the fact her money for the car actuycane from selling your stolen property. It isn't her money, it's stolen, your sister is an AH if she wants to reward her daughter for theft by keeping the proceeds and buying a car with them.
She made a choice. It was deliberate and sneaky. That's not a mistake. It was planned. Mistakes aren't planned.
Yeah, she's not "just a kid". 16-17 is absolutely old enough to understand that what she's doing it wrong (even if she's being a little "stupid" ie a teenager about it). It's theft plain and simple. She's old enough to face consequences, not to mention that exceeding a certain amount stops being a misdemeanor and becomes a felony (this is often a few hundred dollars, IANAL). Like others said, next person won't be so gentle

Edit: NTA
Not to mention she is 17. Kid? What kid?
If you ever get the opportunity, you should say all that to the neice. Even if nothing else ever comes of all this, it would help drive home that she chose to take the low road and things could have gone much differently.
A 17 year old isn't a child anymore, teenager or not... she's an adolescent who can 100% tell right from wrong. She just thought OP wouldn't notice it. (She didn't just spray herself whenever she was there, which I could apologise under "young and stupid" and being too much tempted. Stealing and selling it has pretty criminal energy and she definitely needs a good consequence *and* pay it back. 


> Their argument is that now the money she was going to use for a car has to go towards paying me back.


Good. Not being able to get a car now is the best consequence for her actions right now. That's a good life lesson. And it will probably have to do since her mother doesn't sound like she wants to give her extra chores or cut allowances or whatever...


NTA of course. 
What pisses me off the most when anyone gets in trouble is when they say it was a mistake. No it fucking is not. When you actively do something with intention, that's not a mistake. When you actively hide what you are doing from someone, you know you are wronging, is not a mistake. A mistake is putting a color with white clothes or putting regular dish soap in a dishwasher. That fucking shit pisses me off to no end.
Better to teach the thief what happens to thieves now before it's too late, restitution is the least she should be worried about. If it had been anyone else she'd probably be in jail. By her learning the lesson by having to pay you back now maybe that will prevent her from committing a felony later. And 17 is certainly old enough to know what the hell she's doing
Also, based on whether you are in the US and just how much samples your niece took, this could possibly run into felony territory as well based on the monetary value. They are lucky that you aren't interested in suing them. Also, sure, she's a kid, but she's 17. By that point I'd fucking hope she knows that theft is illegal. I'd also kind of expect someone that age to be able to guess that knowingly selling stolen goods is also illegal. 

NTA and I hope you get your stolen perfume back.
Your sis should compensate you for parenting lessons. Sheesh. 

Your niece planned it, designed a ruse, stole items of value, to hock said stolen goods online, so she could profit and purchase an item she wanted for herself. 

Instead of slinging burgers she chose crime. Sis is a fool and raised a crook. This isn’t the first scam your niece has run. I wouldn’t be surprised if she had help from friends and the like. It’s what’s called a “criminal enterprise”. 

That girl’s future includes the clink. 

NTA.
If you DON'T make her repay you, you will have reinforced the notion that crime DOES pay. The fact that her mother is willing to avoid her responsibility as a parent, doesn't mean that you should--especially since her thievery impacted you directly. You're kind not to get the cops involved. Her mother should be thanking you, OP. NTA.
My teenage mistakes were breaking curfew, and forgetting my homework. Mistakes are not calculated business plans, her mistake was getting caught.
Who says she didn’t mention any part of the plan to the adults in her life? You saying her mother had no idea what her daughter was doing at Aunt’s house, why her backpack constantly rattled like paint cans and glass bottles, what she was posting on her social media, why all her friends were asking her for hookups and assuring her they had cash, or where the funds for her car were coming from? Not sure which is a worse maternal example.
Nope, fencing involves a third party, literally the “fence” or “middleman” between a criminal act and a legit buyer getting a “steal of a deal”. 

Answering for a friend
no, this is the kind of shit drug addicts do for money.
Yeah this has so much intent behind it that it feels weird to call it a mistake. Perhaps it’s a mistake if like her family is financially struggling and she doesn’t know how to help, but doesn’t sound like it. 
I wonder if the friends knew!  They could be considered accessories if they did. The received stolen goods, so at a minimum, they would have it confiscated. It would sure scare the friends too!
That’s why she should be *scent* to jail.
At 17, you can't use the "just a kid" argument because they are literally MONTHS away from being an freaking adult and should know better that stealing is illegal. Niece knew exactly what she was doing and that it was wrong. Otherwise, why did she choose to lie about her motives for being in OPs house at all. I'm bettingbsister is pissed because she knew about how her daughter received her "inventory" and was also benefiting from it.

Also, that money she had saved for her car is probably the money she got from stealing the perfume anyway so it should absolutely go back to OP.
Not to mention she's incriminated herself online blatantly.
If someone stole 20 bucks cash from me and then bought a burrito with their credit card I’m still down 20 bucks and they got a burrito which costs an amount of bucks and 20 bucks. No one in their right mind would be like “ah dang you spent money? I guess that means I don’t care about the money you stole from me on accounta the burrito you bought with money that is somehow now distinct from the money you didn’t steal from me.”
Yes.
Stupid question here: how long are the vintage perfumes good for? Like would you still wear a 25 year old Bulgari?
I mean, she knows her customer base lol. But in all seriousness NTA better for her to learn the consequences for stealing now instead of down the line when the consequence is jail and a criminal record.
Should tell her you're thankful she has shit taste. Hope it stings lmao.
I'm sure if it was their valuables being flogged on TikTok they wouldn't think it was no big deal
My oldest is 5, and she just tried to steal another kid’s glow stick bracelet by sliding hers off, leaving it there and putting the new one on.

I made sure she put it back, because that shit don’t fly

OP NTA
That was my thought too
Sister doesn't give a shit because she expects it to be handled leniently "because she's just a kid". From her point of view, it's business as usual.


If it were escalated to police, she'd start to kick up a fuss.
i do strongly agree that even if you decide not to press charges it will be crucial for you to make sure that you control the narrative in this situation. 

this girl was not "borrowing a little perfume for her friends" she was creating a business based on underhanded theft and its quite likely that she is stealing for profit from other sources as well including jewlery, money, food, etc.

as many other posters have brought up, there is no logical "mistake" that could have been made here, your niece thought she was clever and engaged in burglary on a repeat level and she needs to understand the gravity of that kind of behavior before she gets in major employment trouble as an adult.
I can already hear your sister now, “ how dare you tell people our daughter stole from you” brace yourself, though I agree it’s a great idea. I’m all for calling people out publicly when they want to act like if didn’t happen.
At the very least, I would warn the rest of your extended family about what your niece has been doing and that your sister is trying to cover for her.  Point out that you aren't trying to stir up trouble, you are trying to make sure that other people are aware there is a problem so they don't make the mistake of allowing anyone in your sister's family unsupervised access to their homes.
NTA. If your sister refuses to reconcile this, what are you going to do?
I understand not wanting to involve the police, when  the perpetrator is your 17yo niece. She deserves the police being involved, but I understand not doing so, and may well make the same decision myself in your shoes. But why not small claims? It has no legal ramifications on your niece other than having to pay you back, which is the exact thing you want.
Okay with that being said why even ask, what are you hoping to accomplish?
A normal 8-year-old knows the difference, but consequences would be paid by their parents for anyone under the age of 16 in most countries.
I disagree. Forced "volunteer" work is a disaster. Why make some poor supervisor/charity worker deal with her?
My sister says the same thing she always did. That the world has too high expectation of her kids and it is not their fault if they don't succeed. They can't be blamed for giving up because the deck is stacked against them.  I tend to agree about the last point - the deck is really stacked against them because they didn't get the tools they needed to become well functioning adults. At the same time she completely fails to step up and help her kids with anything other than soothing words when they - predictably - get in trouble. I used to have the financial freedom to support them but I don't anymore, so now they all just have to navigate the mess she has made. I love my sister and my niblings and I wish I could help, but I was denied giving the only help that would have really mattered in the long run: the lesson about consequences that OP's niece also sorely needs.
r/legalcatadvice 😺
I swear the wrong people get breaks all the time
Selling a gift ? I don't know about you, but seeing someone sell a gift that I've given out is just scummy on another level.
And if that is the case, and you are going to wait until your losses are recouped… Yea, that’s better, it is. Marginally more backbone. But your relationship with your sister is still not torpedoed in that case. If the loss is hundred of dollars and you spend $1k, that’s only one christmas of gifts that they’re missing out on, isn’t it? 

Do you think that will tell your sister your relationship is ruined? Or do you think that teaches her “oh, you might feel bad, but you’ll get over it in a couple momths, and then we’ll get everything the same as before.”
Please hold to that--DO NOT give in.
This strikes me as an outlandishly high amount as an every year thing. I would wonder if that amount going around in gifts regularly is contributing to a materialistic family culture, and a sense that your sister's family is valuing you only as a source of wealth.
i wouldn't give them a damn thing anymore. no birthday or xmas gifts, ANYTHING. Make the police report NOW, u got the receipts. take them to small claims, etc. by not doing anything about this situation, you're letting your crap sister and niece get away with stealing. put on the big girl pants and make them suffer the consequences because this not ok
change the locks on them and your house too
It definitely went to something.  I just don't think it went into a new car fund that her parents were tracking.  At least not unless the daughter lied about the source of the money which is of course possible.

Other possibilities are clothes, going out with friends, maybe she bought herself a computer.  Maybe she hasn't spent it yet.
Excellent idea. No police or lawyers, but shaming them may work just as well.
Tbf, the dog sitting was a job. Unclear whether niece had alternate employment.
My FIL used to go to Tanzania for a month every summer. He had a new MacBook one trip that was stolen and was pretty sure he knew who took it but didn’t say anything because he worried they’d kill him!  They look down on thiefs as is, let alone someone who’d stolen from a guest of the village. Hell, people die over that kind of thing here in the US everyday it seems. It’s definitely good for OP’s niece to learn her lesson this way rather than the hard way later on.
Absolutely! I feel like this is an even better learning opportunity because she’s saving money for a car. It will TRULY hit here where it hurts now.
🥇
The consequences aren't even that bad, IMO. I guess the niece wasted her time, but she's financially no worse off than she was before.

NTA
10 to 1 odds this girl already shoplifts.
100% this - this is the story of a family member. 

Fucker started off stealing stupid shit like candy or clothes from family. Then it went to money. Then he committed forgery and credit card fraud as well as stealing our grandparents car. 

If you let it go when it's "little things" it escalates to the big things.
Given that she's 17, "next time" she might get adult consequences. 
NTA, OP
At the price point that she stole, the next time is a felony.
True. If they don’t nip this now, what’s to say her next escapade will be legal? It’s a hard lesson but she needs to learn it.
If she steals from the wrong person she could end up dead.
It's not cruel to hold her accountable.
I'm pretty sure at 17, you can be tried as adult and not as a child 🤔 

Correct me if I'm wrong
And at 17, she’s less than 12 months from no juvenile court. Given the way DAs overcharge minors and charge as adults, if she pulled this with anyone else, she’d be in deep legal shit. 

You don’t want the story of my uncle’s repeated petty and not so petty thefts that ended with him getting told to either join the Navy or face prison, and wasn’t welcome at home ever again.
Yeah I wondered the same thing!
Based on the amount she stole and I am guessing a decent profit margin, she should be able to pay her Aunt back.
Yep, this is what I was thinking.  Why should she feel guilty about asking the kid for her car money when the car money came from selling what she stole from the OP?
OMG excellent question
17 years old is not a kid, more like a young adult. She knows better at this age. Some states will try a 17 year old as an adult. I think the worst part (and biggest asshole) is your sister's behavior. 

Let's just say (so I won't get kicked off Reddit) that my parents would have handled this in a more, oh, shall we say, aggressive manner. Old school way.   

Other posters here are right, if she doesn't learn now then maybe she will start taking things at work and no one will care about your kids like you do. She will be fired and the police escorting her out of her office in handcuffs.

If I was your sister I would be kissing your feet for not involving the police. I'm not saying call the police. I get that. I'm saying don't  feel guilty for wanting to be paid back.  And who cares about a car she was saving for? She should be grounded which means no car. At least in my teenage world.

That kid would not be around me, pets, house, anything until she proved herself trustworthy again.

And she put it on Instagram for pete's sake. Talk about documentation, and to computer geeks out there, is there another crime here because she is selling stolen merchandise on a social media platform?
No! She really had her eyes on the Sephora type perfumes and things really popular on tiktok like Bianco Latte. Penhaligon's bottles would have been a turn off for her.
I didn't think of that. She could very well be stealing from other clients. If she's dog walking odds are she has a key because she's doing it while they're at work.
Hopefully she gets caught, by more than one, and turned in.
The notion that a 17 year old is “too young“ to understand that stealing is wrong is absurd.
She's 17 and she didn't swipe a single bottle, she methodically decanted various amounts of multiple bottles into her own, which she brought to her aunt's house under a ruse. That is a sophisticated scheme which definitely doesn't fall into the category of "mistake". You don't trip and fall and accidentally use an eyedropper and your own bottles to carefully decant a perfume; her actions alone show that she had intent and tried to be sneaky to avoid the consequences she was certainly aware of. 

17 is old enough to be tried as an adult for certain crimes, especially if it was premeditated. She is very lucky her aunt doesn't have interest in pursuing this, or she would certainly be slapped with a punishment worse than just having to pay her back.
With all the perfume she stole, it may actually add up to grand theft. That $300 bottle got her a third of the way there.
Didn't read your whole comment and this isn't meant to be critique but the first line...she's 17...there is no excuse at 17 years of age to not know that stealing is wrong
If she's old enough to buy a car she's old enough to understand right and wrong and consequences
Too young? She's 17!!!!!! I teach 11-12 olds who know perfectly well that stealing is bad!
Businesses whose core value proposition is selling goods you got for free (because you stole them) don’t tend to be very profitable once you have to buy your own inventory.
Hey hey hey. Well have less of that helpful and useful feedback. This is reddit, you're only allowed to pick from the following responses.

That's a red flag

Divorce them now

Sue them

Look at that age gap, gross


But on a serious note I fully agree with you. Turn it into a learning moment AND encourage her entrepreneurial initiative. If done right OP would get their money back quicker and the niece would get her car and possibly learn how to run a small business.
Very kind and thoughtful comment. OP could also benefit financially from this business as she has product knowledge. Despite the blatant disrespect, if she reaches back down now that she’s gotten to where she is and helps her niece succeed legally, she’s done far more than jail ever will.
Thank you! I don't mean to sound like an ass, but this is Reddit. You're going to get the most extreme suggestions and, honestly, you're not getting that money back if you don't take it to the police. Like someone else said, they're just gonna cut contact with OP and claim to the rest of the family that it's cause she went crazy over niece sampling her perfume.

If they have to choose between paying OP back or niece having a car, they're gonna choose the car. If sister's first thought at hearing that her daughter stole from OP was *"what about daughter's car"* rather than *"how dare daughter do that",* then only *one* of those options is an actual punishment to them and OP is letting them choose whether or not they take that punishment.

*My point is:* why bother complaining when you're not actually going to do anything to fix the situation yourself?
I agree with this, why bother.
It's not a great idea to use a threat, unless you fully intend to follow through. If you say to niece "Pay me or I will go to the police!" and then she doesn't pay, you are backed into a corner. You HAVE to go to the police, or you send a message that you don't mean what you say and she will always be able to weasel out of whatever she gets into. I wouldn't threaten her if I weren't going to do exactly that. 

Now, if OP were to come up with some OTHER thing, besides the police, that she WOULD do if niece doesn't pay her back, then THAT would work well. There may be an action OP can take that would encourage the niece. I don't know what exactly. But there may be something.
Honestly, I hope they didn't know but now know their 'friend' is fine with mixing them up in illegal shit.
This cracked me up, thank you.   

Ah shit, burritos ARE delicious... Welp see ya later!
Ah dang, you see, the 20 bucks in cash i stole, see I went ahead and deposited in my bank account. And now, the bank, they tell me it's gone off into the circulation and all, in the economy, cause the liquidity ratio is only like 10%, so really your 20 bucks doesn't even exist in corporeal form anymore, its just numbers in some hard drives in Goldman Sachs, so like, here's their CEO's email, maybe ask him yeah?
And the person didn't get a burrito yet, they are thinking of getting one with the money like wtf
burrito laundering 😌
You’ve made me crave a burrito when I don’t have stuff for it. Mental damage has ensued, please think of the stomachs you’ve dealt emotional damage to! :p
It'll depend on storage, ingredients, etc. I generally don't wear perfumes that are that old, maybe smell them once in a while.
I have some perfumes I wore in HS around 20 years ago and they’re still good! It does depend on storage and other factors like OP said, but if stored properly, perfumes can last a loooooong time
I bought this mostly empty bottle of vintage (can't get a solid answer but roughly somewhere between 70-90 years old based on the info I could find) aucoin magnolia perfume that came in a little dice shaped bottle. I can't speak for what it would have smelled like when it was first made, but it did still smell pleasant and floral which was a neat and very unexpected suprise. 

It would definitely vary between perfumes and also how they're stored, but sometimes they can last several decades and still smell nice.
I have vintage perfumes that are 50 years old. If they’re stored properly, they can maintain for a long long time.
fragrances, especially quality brands, are pretty hardy. closed and stored in a cool dry place they can last that long no problem.
asking the real questions, thank you
I have gucci & chopard i bought a good 30yrs ago that still smell amazing. Just depends how it’s stored, what was the quality. Cheaper the ingredients, less time it will last
She said she wasn't going to do anything, since she's not involving police or lawyers. 


So she'll do nothing, if she doesn't get the money back. 
Not really sure, at this point. Most likely take the money out slowly over time from gifts, school fundraisers (they have other kids), etc.
Not to mention she already sounds like she'd be rude and entitled around any people. Also she'd probably rob a homeless person.
Also how does charity work make OP whole?
Ah true, too bad she decided to use it as an opportunity to steal... dogsitting / walking could be lucrative but you have to be trustworthy
This is interesting. Increasing punishment severity doesn't mean fewer crimes, it means fewer people reporting crimes and getting justice.
Right, like you're not asking for her to use her hard earned cash to pay for an accident. She didn't spill a glass of wine on a silk run and now she can't afford a car.

You're asking her to pay back the money she earned from THEFT!!!  She literally stole from you and is trying to argue she shouldn't have to pay you back because now she can't buy something she wants with the profits of her crime.

She is 17, she is not a kid. If she's old enough to be driving a car, she's old enough to know stealing is wrong. She made a mistake, sure. But I bet she thinks the mistake was getting caught not the crime itself. When you make a mistake, kid or not, you do what you can to make it right. Paying you back is how she can do that. 

I know you don't want to involve the police, I get it, she's family etc but your niece is a criminal, that needs to be loud and clear. Your sister is trying to argue that your niece should get to keep the proceeds of her crime.
Exactly. Now she won't have a car for college - but one wonders if she's mature enough for college in the first place. As a parent, I'd have a serious conversation with my daughter about this. At age 17, you're less then a year away from legally being an adult. That's some criminal energy and she acted with full intention. If this would go to court, not sure how that would pay out. At the same time, the stupidity of thinking OP would not notice, and also to be too dumb to mot even make sure her posts are not limited to friends...yeah.

I think your response of 'this is a great opportunity to learn' was the perfect reply. How long does mom think she's 'still a kid'? 35? Nope. I think "just' paying it back is actually the most lenient consequence, no matter how much it hurts. Better than having a criminal record.
Where do you think the car money came from?
The best part that I think so many people keep forgetting is that having a car is a privilege, not a right. You have to earn that privilege. Considering the very high likelihood of the money she earned from stealing OP's perfumes is going towards buying said car, I don't think the niece actually earned that privilege.
You were exactly right to do this. She shouldn't get a car. She should pay you back just to learn that theft is not a good thing.And you shouldn't steal.It's against the ten commandments
In my experience, people steal from family members because they have easy access to their property and it’s less likely they will call the police.  

If you don’t stop a thief, they will just continue stealing.  
Just look at the Grant Amato case. Is it way out there compared to this, yes, but it starts small when they keep getting bailed out and made excuses for. You paid for it and you worked for it so why should she steal it and not work for it?
You can’t just drop that, and walk away! If you want to please tell us more!!!
My grandmother never punished her daughter when she stole from family. That wench stole her checkbooks and cleaned her out. She still allowed her back into the home for holidays and she turned around and stole ALL of my Christmas money. I was 12. I KNEW it was her. Every one else knew too. And they did nothing. Before I left that day I told them I hoped they taken a good mental image of me because I wouldn't be back. I held on to my word and told my dad if he wanted to see me it wouldn't be there. I didn't see my grandmother again till I was 17 because "family is family."
Wow, just wow!
Exactly.  Her parents won't think this behaviour is so cute once she pulls this kind of stunt with someone who is not a family member and she is the wrong side of 18 in court.
Kid must experience what juvie is
You can be tried as an adult for things much much younger than that. Just depends on circumstances.
I have to say: I agree with the sister comment: she should be so grateful that you are just wanting the money back with nothing and no one extra involved.
And if she "saved" money from stealing OP's stuff, she was using OP's money to get a car. How do the niece and sister not get that?
OP may want to take some screenshots just for backup documentation in case sis and niece get pissy
If she was selling it across state lines it's a federal crime. And at 17 would probably be tried as an adult.
When I was 15, I went to a local mall with my high school "best friend" and her mom. Her mom let us roam by ourselves, with the understanding that we'd meet back up at certain time in the center of the mall. This was on New Years Eve day, so the mall was closing early.

Now, I knew my friend was something of a kleptomaniac, as I'd been with her before when she stole stuff such as candy bars, a stuffed animal (we were with my dad when she did that), etc., but she always did that on her own. 

So we went on our merry way in the mall. Stopped at a store that sold perfume. She stole some but didn't get caught. We went on to Sears. This time, she decided to steal some makeup and started encouraging ME to do the same. I refused at first but eventually caved to the peer pressure. I didn't even want the makeup, and I had this feeling we were being watched. 

Sure enough, undercover store security WAS watching us. We got caught when we went into the young girls' dressing rooms to better hide our stuff. We had to empty our purses, and they, of course, found the stolen perfume she had. Eventually, we convinced security to come with us to meet up with her mom (paging her over the mall's announcement system wasn't working). Fortunately, her mom was willing to take responsibility for us, so we didn't end up going to juvenile hall.

My punishment? When we got back to my friend's place (I was staying overnight), I had to call my dad and tell him what happened. That, to me, was almost worse than the alternative! My mom had died the year before, so it was just me and my dad at home. My older brother was a college freshman and was living in the dorm.

Dad and my friend's mom let me stay overnight. Dad picked me up the next day and, on the way home, said (in that eerie calm voice that some parents have) "when we get home, after you've made lunch, we're going to have a talk about what you did."

And talk we did. He never yelled at me, but his words have stayed with me all these years later. The worst part was when he said, "I thought your Mom and I had raised you better than this. I'm DISAPPOINTED in you."

It was a good 3 years before I fully regained his trust. Needless to say, that was the last time I shoplifted!
Well, that just shows she has no taste!

I only have Penhaligon's Lily of the Valley and Artemisia but they're wonderful!
Five year olds and younger understand the concept of "don't take things that don't belong to you"
Unless the 17 year old has a mental disability, which I'd imagine OP would have mentioned if it were the case here, them NOT understanding that stealing is wrong would, at least to me, imply significant neglect on the part of the parents. This is something you should have taught them when they were like 3-5.
In UK a 10 year old can be considered criminally liable.
I bet she bought a bunch of cheap atomizer off of Temu or SHEIN.
I'm not a fragrance collector by any means, but I'm very particular about the scents I wear, and if someone tries to steal my bottle of Bleu de Chanel, we're going to be throwing hands. When I saw OP mention Baccarat Rouge, my jaw dropped. OP is being SUPER nice compared to how I would react.
[deleted]
If I could give more upvotes to this I would 17 is not “just a kid” young yes minor yes but she knows right from wrong and she knows she stealing (if she doesn’t then that on her parents but even still most actual children learn this)
My mom was living in an apartment of her own at 17. I mean, come on.
This! I know the brain isn't fully developed until 25, yada yada, but she is old enough to know stealing is wrong. Kids much younger than her know that.
Maybe some of those Chinese knockoff designer shoes that use toxic chemicals, stink and who knows how unhealthy they are, and probably made with slave labor. Smuggler or Contraband show raided one of those storage places, it was filed to the ceiling with them. They confiscated the entire stock and destroyed them. They are great shows. Only difference is she is selling stolen goods, has no conscience or remorse, probably part of her car savings, but so far no consequences and pathetic enabling parents.
.....you forgot

Therapy!
The 17yo can only afford the car because she's been profiting from theft. There's no "saved" money, only money from selling stolen goods.

I have to agree. Without consequences the likelihood of a critical lesson being learnt are close to zero.
It sounds like she’s going to get the money back, just that they aren’t happy about it

Personally I think this whole subreddit sucks and is poorly moderated.. nobody comes here anymore for genuine advice, they just want sympathy.

Like there is a scenario where OP is the asshole .. c’mmon
If someone stole 20 bucks from me (someone I liked) was really sorry about it, was starving but told me the burrito they bought hit different…If they bought me three burritos and gave me 100 dollars as recompense, I’d be good with it because burritos are delicious lol.
I’ve got some 25 year old Lalique minis in gorgeous bottles that still smell great. I just wish I’d been able to afford the full size, the bottles are collectors items too.
NTA. I have Isabella Rossellini’s Manifesto in an unopened box, Tiffany’s perfume in original and Rose Gold, a couple of Burberry, a Dior, and a Paloma. I don’t share them and if anyone even tried to take one, I’d cut them. 

You let someone in your home and trusted them. This is a betrayal you don’t have to get over.
Hey, totally random question but do you find that Bvlgari perfumes tend not to spoil? At least not in the same amount of time that other stuff spoils. They seem to last forever & they don’t trigger my allergies.
Good old Vanilla Fields 😂
Can I ask how you store perfume to make it last? I have a bottle of my grandma's perfume. I don't wear it at all but the smell reminds me of her and I'd like to keep it around
Out of curiosity have you noticed that their scents have become "stronger"? I worry about buying the larger bottles of cologne since I don't wear it often and have heard that they can become overpowering after a few years.
So if I just keep my perfumes in my house, away from sunlight and heat, they should be good? I seem to have amassed quite a collection of Penhaligon and Sucrebillie bottles, and I’m worried about storing them correctly.
She’s 17.  There aren’t many school fundraisers left in her education.   You can I nform Instagram (or other app) that’s she’s selling stolen goods on their platform.  You can get her social media shut down at the very least.  Tell your sister and niece that you’re going to do it.  Give them a few hours to produce the money or her social media is gone.
No dear.

I understand if you choose not to go to the police or small claims court. That is your choice. 

But if your sister (her parents) refuse to take action then you have to take immediate action to protect yourself from them. Otherwise they will just continue to take advantage of you and steal from you.

I would suggest (at minimum):

They are never allowed in your house again. (Not even supervised.)

There will be no more money for gifts or school fundraisers or anything else until you have recouped your losses.
What an awful position to have to be in. Im sorry your sister is a butt face and I hope she chooses to do the right thing.

I’ll be the toxic Redditor to say… show her this post and see what people think about her choices. She needs to open her eyes.
so you just won’t be gifting that specific niece for now on? there’s really not much you can do outside of you just waiting until they find it in their hearts (very unlikely) that they were wrong and compensate you
I’m not sure if you’re joking. If your sister is going to behave like that, her kids and school get less than nothing. Their entitled mom can foot the bill.

And you should press charges on little miss felon if they don’t want to handle this off the books.

You’re being a doormat because FaMiLy, while they’re walking all over you.
Taking the money out from gifts? I'm genuinely confused. How is that a form of payback? Doesn't that just mean you're spending less money on future gifts? If so, that doesn't offset the cost of what was stolen. I may be misunderstanding though.
Why would you continue to gift anything to people who stole from you?  That isn't a line in the sand for you?
That “kid “ shouldn’t be on any gift list going forward. Reduce gift giving to others is a start but still wont teach niece the lesson if there are truly no consequences to her. I hope you commented on her instagram though, otherwise there are no lessons learned/ consequences
Honestly, you're doing her a disservice by NOT pressing charges. She's 17, so not yet an adult. If she doesn't face consequences now, she's going to repeat this behavior in a year or two and end up in actual jail.
I mean this in the best way, get the courts (civil)/law enforcement involved.

She is STEALING from you. She KNOWS it’s wrong or else she wouldn’t be sneaking around. Your sister, unfortunately, doesn’t care about it.

You need to set consequences, and tbh, put some space. 

I know that’s your sister and niece but family doesn’t treat family like this.
Consider small claims court if the damages are under the limit in your state. It won't show up as a criminal record, but it will force restitution.
Please please please don’t continue to do things for sister and nieces and nephews.  The other children either know what their sister did or will know.  If they don’t pay you back, they others may see you as a soft target and try similar things.   Sis and/or niece don’t pay, cut them off. Keep the relationship if u want but absolutely no financial transactions.
You need a backbone.
Oh for sure. You have to understand though that this was rural Africa. I haven’t been there myself but have seen tons of pics and video and I’m fairly certain they’d have to walk a ways to get to somewhere with a police presence. It’s understandable that crimes like stealing are taken care of within the village. It’s just that this was considered especially offensive from my understanding because he was a guest. I *think* his concern was more that he’d die as a result of “punishment” rather than locals killing him with intent.
I washed my own mouth as a punishment. My parents weren’t even home when I cursed.. I’m still curious what I was thinking when I asked myself how can I punish myself? 

But yea, the 17 year old knew what she did. She knows she stole. She knows who she stole from. She can suffer the consequences because she dug her own grave. 

She’s lucky as shit OP doesn’t want to go to the police. That could EASILY be a felony.

Edit: NTA
This is exactly what I was thinking! She isn’t “paying the money back,” she is giving it to the person who actually deserves it as it was OP’s “product” she sold to begin with!
i couldnt have put it better myself
She's probably going to business college. Those kids are the *worst*.
Exactly if OP involved the police it’s more likely than not due to her age that she would be charged as an adult.
OP’s not an AH, But, I am to people that deserve it, I would file a police report, not press charges, wait until Niece buys a car then sue her for the car as it was obtained with OP’s stolen property.
I agreed with you up until you brought religion into this.
Especially with kids.

Most younger kids can understand and feel the temptation of “I want the thing, I take the thing and don’t get caught. No harm done.”

The consequences of their actions is often the sparking point of critical thinking about the ethical implications and **why** it’s wrong.

Some kids aren’t just inherently selfish and stupid. But they haven’t had anything shake them to stop a moment, smell the roses, and think about how they’re selfish and stupid in their actions.
 
OP’s niece clearly needs a shakeup at the minimum. That’s part of parenting.
I used to steal little things from Walmart but never family. Well one day we were at my sister's aunts house (different dads) and one of her cousins had an mp3 player that I decided to take... had it for a few weeks when I finally got caught and my mom made me return it in person and apologize. I never stole again
In my experience it get swept under the rug because FaMiLy then they get arrested because they're stealing from coworkers or their employer/customers.


Then they bailed out from their families because FaMiLy. Then they do it again and again until FaMiLy is expected to go into serious debt to cover their asshole relative. 


No. Cut that shit off now before it's too late. Don't give them a record but make them face serious consequences like not being able to get a car. Fucking small potatoes in the grand scheme of things.
Exactly what I was thinking of. Sure it's an extreme outlier, but if Amato's family hadn't covered for him over and over again, even when he stole from family, he would have been in jail for a few years instead of murdering them.
So this fucker used to take Halloween candy, birthday candy, whatever. Our family just blew it off as "it's just candy". Then I noted money missing - my birthday/Christmas money. I told my family, they just ignored me or made it out like I must have spent it and forgot. 

Until it started happening to them.

It started off as change missing from their dresser. Then money from their purse/wallet. It didn't hit home until my grandparents cash stash went MIA. 

Cousin was suspected, but they didn't pursue it. Just still kept giving them money, clothes, buying gas for their car.

I moved out and, oh look, my money and stuff is no longer going missing!

But theirs is.

Then my grandmas jewelry went missing. Now they started keeping a  closer eye, for a little bit.  Fucker got busted stealing their car. They let it slide. Then stole their credit cards and racked them up, they didn't know til they got the bill. Stole their car AGAIN. On top of the drugs they got busted with, the car was impounded and our grandparents had to pay the fines to get it back. 

Dude was sentenced to 3 years prison, got off with 3 months jail and was let out early. OD'ed at their parents house with a kid there, cops called in again because of drugs. Thankfully kid was not the one who found them. Dude didn't make it, whole family breathes relief as we no longer have to hide birthday/ Christmas money, wallets, purses, etc during family get togethers.
Oh, my, OP. So NTA. I think you were far more generous than I'd be! Oh, I assume niece is no longer employed as your dog-walker? I'd change all the locks, and install a Ring camera

Maybe her parents are awaiting precious darling daughter getting pulled over for auto theft? Is that what it would take for them to take this seriously? The kid sounds like she was already working on her personal larceny CV. 

Glad you're billing the little ganef for her fledgling criminal enterprise!
Plus that money for the car? She got that by stealing from OP. Boo hoo.
Especially because based on where this is, it might easily be felony territory as well.
My dad senme two bars of the soap and a bottle of Peony perfume from Caswell Massey for my bday.
Oh my, so so lovely. Hubby loves it.
I don’t like Lily of the Valley, I love smells like the one I mentioned ☝️and Babylon. Forgot the yellow one.
True. And happy cake day! 🥳
Hell, in the States, a 14 year old girl was sent away for life for murdering her mother. I mean, the punishment fits the crime but you will never convince me that a 14 year old is an adult.
Same with Texas.
I did not know that thank you for pointing it out.
She's close enough they could already easily decide to charge as an adult, depending on the circumstances.
She can be considered an adult now.

This is much more serious. A 16 year old, who was 15 when she killed her mother and lay in wait to try to kill her stepfather was tried as an adult. She's going to spend the rest of her life in prison. Don't remember which state but it was this month.
How can I forget that one, I'm so ashamed I should just pack my bags and leave.
I mean, I think everyone should try therapy. Have you seen how people act regularly? Kidding, but seriously, therapy is really helpful for nearly anyone.
That's the name of it. I was trying to think of it a while back. Charlie Red or Vanilla Fields were the 2 at my school.
You’ve unlocked core smell memories, blast from the past. I haven’t thought of that since the 90s.
Ahaha Exclamation!
the main ingredient thats not scented is alcohol, it evaporates and the remainders absolutely will get more potent.
yea you don't need to do anything crazy. heat and humidity are the enemies. it's simple basic rules like don't leave them in your car or somewhere indoors near direct sunlight. for long term storage, keep them upright so they don't leak. put them in a drawer or case where there aren't massive temperature/humidity swings.
Yeah this. If OP does not wanna go to court if they refuse to pay back at least get the little shits Instagram shut down. Probably a bigger lesson for a 17 year old than anything else imho.
"There will be no more money for gifts or school fundraisers or anything else until you have recouped your losses."


I'm pretty sure that was OOP's point, yes.
That's the plan. She had a gig walking my dog and caring for her when I went out of town, and that's off the table as well. It wasn't much (standard rates), but still.
Yes she’s being a doormat
You don't need to punish the thief's siblings, IMHO. 

She's not being a doormat, but she's cooling off before reacting. A good thing?
If OP doesn’t want to involve the police and niece and niece’s parents refuse to reimburse her, that’s the last resort. Every gift-giving event niece and parents get a note that OP is striking $50 from the debt and loudly asks for the rest. 

I’d keep the evidence on my phone so I can show it to any relatives who think I’m petty: niece systematically stole from me and refuses to pay me back; sis thought that buying a car was more important than paying me back.
Her little sister hasn't done anything wrong.
OP should make sure to tell the other kids the reason they're getting fewer/less valuable gifts is because their sister is a thief. 
That's what I was thinking. Age and the malicious intent.
> The consequences of their actions….and **why** it’s wrong

Yeah. When I was like 4, I stole a pack of gum from Target. I didn’t really know any better, but my mom explained why it was wrong and walked me back in to return it. The clerk cooed over how cute I was and let me keep it as a “reward for my honesty”. So, until I was 13, I would steal shit, walk back in talking about “oh my god I’m so sorry I forgot to pay for this!”and 9/10 times they would let me have it for free. 

Then at age 13 once, they saw “thieving teen” instead of “cute kid” and called the cops. Never did that again.  

No punishment, no learning. OP is NTA.
A friend's daughter was stealing little bits of money from family members....$5 - $10 here and there. No one ever confronted her and she escalated to stealing from stores and employers as she got older.  She didn't get punished for it (caught and released for little items) until she was in her 30's and it was big.  She honestly just thought she could do it so she could have what she wanted.
*That's a part of parenting*

That's  what's amazing here. OPs sis doesnt seem to think theres any lesson to be learned. She seems to think this stealing and sales is ok bcz shes saving for a car. 

Let niece get a fucking job instead.
The WHY. You’re right. They have to learn the why. Don’t just be smarter so you don’t get caught. It’s actually morally and legally wrong to steal and to sell stolen items.
I once took a magazine from a store. I was reading it and my mom was making us leave and I wanted to keep reading it so I kind of held it down low and walked out with it. My mom noticed when we got to the car and marched me back into the store and made me return it and apologize. 

That was the beginning and end of my shoplifting career.
The end result of the long series of unpunished misdemeanors, thefts, burglaries is usually long prison life or death. He must have found it easier to steal as there was no consequences than to actually work and get money
Exactly my thought. Where'd the money for the car come from in the first place?
That's a shame, I love it and I also have the somewhat more affordable Crabtree and Evelyn one which is different again.

It's my perfume for spring, especially in May when muguet is traditional and good luck here.
You should probably get therapy to deal with that much shame.
You also forgot gaslighting but I’m not gonna make you feel crazy over it or anything.
Please distance yourself from yourself, imho you should really consider divorcing yourself over this, too.
Does she have a copy of your home keys? If so... change the locks and change them now.
Please change your locks. I would also refrain from letting anyone in your sister’s family have future access to your keys for any reason because the daughter who stole from you could surreptitiously get a hold of your keys through her parents/siblings and quickly make a copy.
Just to clarify, you’re letting her keep the money you paid for pet care, and any profit she got off the theft, all you’re asking is to be made whole on the retail price of the perfumes she stole? Unless she was selling those “samples” for a lot less than they’re worth, I don’t see how she’s not coming ahead even with paying her involuntary supplier. Even with the job loss. 

BTW: just to add since my family sucks, I understand niece and sister are being asses, but I hope you’re not holding that against any other niblings you have off that particularly rotten branch of the family tree.
Sister is gonna tell her to go pound sand.
Punishment would be taking something from them. OP shouldn’t be giving to a family that is stealing from her. Her sister made it a family theft when she refused to pay.

Also, the longer OP waits, the less likely the police are to be able to do anything.
This is Reddit, "sue them" is the default advice and everyone acts like they can't comprehend why someone wouldn't want to sue a family member and fuck them over with a permanent criminal record before taking literally any other course of action. Reddit advice is always "immediately go for the jugular."
My suggestion- gift her experiences you can share with her rather than physical objects her sister could steal! (or trash just because she thinks it’s unfair her little sister got a gift and she didn’t.)
You are right and I actually admire you for not punishing her because of what her sister did.
Then she’ll steal her gifts and sell them instead.
This! Also say why they are not getting ANY gifts, because mom and thieving sister wouldn’t pay her back.
I did suggest in another comment that OP file a police report  NOT press charges, wait until niece buys a car, then sue her for the car or the cars cash value as it was purchased with stolen funds.
But, I am an AH like that and petty as eff.
Core memory for me was stealing a small rubber alligator after my mom said she wouldn’t buy it. I was also 4. Mom spied the tail hanging out of my pocket on the way home and turned the car around. She made me take it to the shop owner and tell him I stole it and that I was sorry. It scarred me but in a good way because I NEVER took shit again. 

I think he also said I could keep it because I was sobbing when I came in but mom was having none of that. No reward for the thief!
Haha, same thing happened to me. My mother gave me hell for stealing a Milky Way and matched me right back into the store to tell the owner what I did. He's thought I was so adorable and said I could keep the candy bar. SHE WAS SO MAD!  When we left the store, she took that candy bar from me and threw it in the trash and proceeded to rip me up one side and down the other. Then she made me tell my dad what I did. He patiently explained why stealing the candy bar is wrong and I should never steal which was funny when I found out he went to prison for embezzled. I never did steal anything after that lesson.
I did something similar with the same results, except my mom told the manager I wasn't allowed to keep what I stole.
Your mum dropped the ball there. The lady at the counter, when I walked my kids back in after they had purloined some lollies and I marched them in, made them apologise and paid for it, tried to give it back to them. I stopped that pretty quick and said that there are no rewards for theft and told them to keep the lollies for themselves.
>The clerk cooed over how cute I was and let me keep it as a “reward for my honesty”.

Yeah, this was a terrible message, and if I was your mother I wouldn't have let that happen. Also, don't get in the way of other people's parenting! Abusive situations excepted, of course.

At my work there's a sink, and a lot of time children end up spilling water that one of us has to wipe up, because it's a hazard. Even though we aren't supposed to get customers to do it (obviously), the few times I've had parents insist their children wipe it up themselves? I let them! Though I may give a token protest. In one case the mum literally said to me 'they have to learn'.
This sounds like a woman I worked with. She was finally caught because she was doing fake refunds to her maxed out credit cards to bankroll a girls trip to Vegas. It almost cost ME my job since I was receiver and the discrepancies in inventory were huge.
Yep!!! My family member did the same thing. College educated DUMBASS! Baseball cards? No need and has babies!
I kind of wonder if mom not only knew, but was also daughter’s biggest customer.
Starting a new organization, SFPM - Society for punitive moms
Where have they gone?
Bahahahaha 🤣 noice 👍
very important as well! change all of your locks, don’t give anyone not living there a copy
Exactly and no one is paying her back and she lacks the guts to press charges etc.
If it were me there’d be absolutely no gifts going to the sister or their family for birthdays or Christmas and if they have anything to say just say “I’m replacing my collection your daughter decided to sell” 

17!!! It’s a fucking joke at 17! She knew what she was doing, basically stealing to ORDER your collection, that’s what career criminals do not a kid making a mistake!
In that case just send a gift specifically for her. Don’t send your sister or the thief anything because they are enabling her wrongful behaviour by doubling down on not paying you back.
My petty ass would send a card to the 17 yr old with a list of the decants I’d have already “given” her as her gift.
That will be the mother's problem to deal with.
Me too!! I have let things go before and it just got worse!! Now I don’t let things go!
When my boys were around 4 and 5, we lived waaaaay out in the boonies. Town was 14 miles away. Narrow roads, and slow moving farm trucks and when you’re tired, that’s a long ass drive. Got home one afternoon after shopping (2 towns over, so the drive was 25 miles one way) and my oldest pulls out a giant candy bar. The Hersheys with almonds one. He burst into tears the second I demanded to know where he had gotten it. That store. So…loaded up the car again, with both kids, and drove right back to the store. I was so tired. And frustrated. Kid is crying in the back seat. But we all went back into the store and I made him go up to the same cashier to return it and explain himself. She initially told him. ‘Oh it’s ok’ but I told her it wasn’t ‘ok’. Then the long drive back home. I’m glad that candy bar had almonds tho. I don’t like almonds. I might have been tempted to keep it otherwise.
One of my kids did something similar and the clerk was going to give them candy for coming back in.  I looked at my kid and my kid looked at me and then looked at the clerk and said no thank you. My son walked into to the house was mad because I wouldn’t let him get a reward for stealing.  I said you were getting a reward for stealing not honesty.  

He asked me years later about it and we talked about.  He said he never did it again and understood.  He told me talked to someone else .. no idea who and they said the same things his dad and I said.
I had something that was sort of the opposite of this; When I was 9, Mum sent me to the supermarket to buy 2 litres of milk. I walked out the door and got about 300 metres away when I realised OH CRAP! I forgot to pay for it. Went back in, swapped it for another one, paid and left
My brother stole from a shop once when we were four/five, our mum took him back to the shop and made him apologise and give back the item. He had sticky fingers as a small child, stealing sweets which he broke his arm in three places for, he once stole a lip gloss from a kid at school. But my mum stopped him completely and he grew up a stable adult who doesn’t steal anything.
We clearly have smart moms. Mine did too.
That's pretty funny but I guess he would know better than anyone, huh?
Good for you. I’m glad you learned that lesson from your dad, after he was incarcerated for embezzlement.
My mom did, she didn’t let me keep it (threw it out and I had my Tv time revoked for a week, which is a long time at age 4) but I had already learned “oh if I steal and come back they think I’m cute and I get free stuff” and it just taught me “make sure mom doesn’t know”
Ooo this makes me think of a girl who used to work within the same company as me. It was 2 different stores, but technically the same company and they were both in the same mall. The news spread like crazy, she had refunded herself THOUSANDS of dollars over time. Just absolutely insane
Get her a gift, a charcoal brickette.
When my son was 4 he took a small car from the Cracker Barrel store. I had told him ‘no,” but he decided he wanted it anyway. We got home and I discovered it. We drove back and I made him hand it to the cashier and apologize. She said he was so cute and could have it, but I said what he did was wrong and he shouldn’t be rewarded. He learned a lesson that day that he still remembers.
Same. I remember going back to my brothers tiny village school with my Mum after my 5 year old brother stole the entire model farm set. She told my brother off all the way there in the car. 
Once we got in the Headteachers office she plonked the bag of evidence and explained what had happened. He placed my brother on the rug in front of his desk and asked him sternly to explain himself. Between gulps he announced "I am a Feef!" Never stole again.
AITA for telling my husband he's too broke to be so sexist?
Throwaway. 

So my husband comes from a 'traditional' family. Mum's a SAHM, father was sole provider. I come from the opposite - my mother pretty much forbade from ever being financially dependent on a man and drilled that into me early on. 

My husband worked hard to unlearn the values he saw replicated at home. He (often more than) pulled his weight at home, was an engaged and present father and a genuine partner. The one thing that grinds my gears is how much weight he puts on the opinions of his family. I get that we all want our parents to be proud of us, but this is too much.

My ILs are staying with us for 2 weeks. Our usual MO is, I prep breakfast, we all eat lunch at work/school, and my husband makes dinner. We have a cleaner, but she's on holiday so in the meantime we're DIYing the cleaning where it's down to everyone to keep their space clean and common spaces we all clean. This is how we've always done it, and it works. 

My ILs hate that I'm 'one of those modern women'. They hate that I work, they hate that I don't find my purpose in being a wife and mother and they hate that my husband pulls his weight at home. We spoke pretty frankly early on, where I established my boundaries and told them I won't be chastised about how I live my life in my home. When I am a guest in their home, I accommodate their ways and play the DIL they wish I was. They have for the most part respected this. 

I got home yesterday after work tired and starving. I typically get home 1815/30 and we eat at 1900. I said quick hellos and ran up for a pre-dinner shower. When I came down, I went to the kitchen to help set up for dinner and found nothing ready. I asked my husband about it but he wouldn't look at me and his mother answered that he hadn't cooked anything. She told me I needed to do my duty as a wife and cook for my family. My coward of a husband still wasn't looking at me. I just walked away and ordered takeaway. I dished up for me and my kids and we sat at the table to eat. My husband and his parents served themselves and joined us. 

My MIL was still going on about what was wrong with me and why I was a failure. I asked my husband if he had anything to say. He said his mother had a point and it wouldn't hurt if I acted 'more like a proper woman' and 'took better care of my home and children'. He said tradition was tradition for a reason and it was kind of insulting that I thought I was too good for how he was raised. 

This is where I might be the asshole. I told him tradition won't allow a man on 35k to support a family of 5 and he was too broke to be so sexist. He looked hurt and I saw tears welling in his eyes. He excused himself from the table. I regret saying this in front of our children, but him saying that to me after I'm busting my ass to clean up his mess on top of having to deal with his parents was too much for me. AITA. 

&#x200B;
#This is now a Proctologists Only Orifice

When a post is in [POO™ mode](https://www.reddit.com/r/AmItheAsshole/comments/168bzq8/title_aita_monthly_open_forum_september_2023) only users with enough subreddit comment karma are able to comment. If that doesn't include you, no worries! Check out [/new](https://www.reddit.com/r/AmItheAsshole/new) for other posts that are still open for comment. 

##[Be Civil.](https://www.reddit.com/r/AmItheAsshole/about/rules)

Please review our FAQ if you're unsure what that means. Thank you for reporting content that you believe violates our rules and helping keep posts out of the POO by abiding by our rules.
NTA - I get you want to tpresent a united front to the kids but he said that about you in front  of them and that is not an idea you want taking root in your childrens mind. 

He was banking on you bowing to peer/family pressure to get away with this disrepect of you and your families normal way of division of labor. He gambled and lost on that and I am really proud that you did not bow down just because his parents were there or that the kids were in the room. Too many people let things like this slide so as not to upset the apple cart. 

This is all on him. He decided it was better for him and easier for him risk your feelings than stand up to his parents.  

He chose to upset you versus upsetting his mother. 

I honestly would not have let them have any of the take out food. I would have probably taken my kids and left to have dinner with just me and the kids.
NTA. Your husband was indeed a coward. He has been a willing participant in your marriage all along and has gamely contributed to the agreement you have that works for you both. It was incredibly hurtful of him to not uphold his own decisions nor defend his wonderful partner of a wife to his parents. When the shit hit the fan, he failed to hold up, and that's a really sad realization for you. What you said might have been hurtful and cutting, but it was the truth, and only came out because he said - also in front of your children - that you weren't a proper woman and didn't take adequate care of your home and children. 

Frankly, he needed to hear it! How can he think you should be MORE OR BETTER with all that you're already doing? Does he think it's really a valid option for you to just drop your work and career to be a homemaker, and how does he think that's gonna go for your family? It's absurdly impractical and makes him look like an imbecile to think it has merit. 

Hate to fall into old reddit tropes but... it's gotta be therapy or divorce time, no? Definitely do the therapy route because it sounds like he's like 85% bought in and working to be a better person, but that 15% reared its head when his parents came around.... which might mean you need some firm boundaries against his parents. It's sickening that they abused their influence of him and used their time with him alone to turn him against you. If it were me, they would not be welcome in my home ever again and I'd be seriously considering limiting their access to the grandkids as well, because they are poisonous against you.
Sucks the kids were there for it but he deserved worse. NTA


Should have ordered only enough food for you and the kids.
NTA


To be honest, I would've been even meaner. 


"Oh honey, I would love to be there for my children and cook meals for you, but as you can't provide for me, like a traditional man would, and can't lead but are lead by your mother, I'm forced to be the man and the woman here. I also wont tolerate to be talked to like your mother does in my own home. In my home, eating food I pay for. Another word and I will kick them out."




Your husband needs a spine. Desperatly.
NTA. First thing to do is tell the IL's they are no longer welcome in your home. If husband wants to see them, he can go visit them. I'd put strict rules in place about contact with the children. Your children should not have to listen to them denigrate their mother. Do talk to your children and say you're sorry they had to hear that and that adult conversations should be private. Do not apologize to your husband, he was fine with letting his parents attack you and he said you were not a proper woman. He should be grovelling at this point. Tell him he has a choice of therapy for himself or divorce.  Your children do not need to be brought up in a sexist, demeaning household. Be firm and take care of yourself.
OP just wondering if your MIL offers to help you at all when visiting? I have a lot trad female family and they will not let the lady of the house lift a finger when visiting.
Obviously NTA, but I do have to wonder...

What exactly has your husband and parents in law been saying about you amongst each other? Doesn't sound like your husband is stopping any malicious slandering, sounds more like he's joining in.

More than that, how much of what they've slandered you about was said in the hearing of the kids? Little mice have large ears, and kids have a habit of eavesdropping when the adults gossip about their parents.

There is a HUGE crisis in your marriage right now, since your husband basically betrayed you. Like literally took what you agreed on (equality) and trusted him with (your children) and did the opposite of what you trusted him to do.

It's a betrayal.

I'm sorry you are dealing with this.

I'd be interested in hearing what he has to say for himself when you talk to him... and you **MUST** talk to him about it, ASAP.
NTA

A “proper man/husband” wouldn’t allow someone to disrespect his wife like that and would be strong enough to stand up to a guest in his home. 

He is weak & cowardly. They can leave & take him with them if they don’t find you a proper woman/mother/wife”. 

There are so many men who are so vocal out one side of their mouth about wanting a “traditional” women/relationship where the woman is subservient & the man leads, but out the other side the yell GOLD DIGGER & shit at the idea of picking up the financial cost of supporting a woman he wants available 24/7 to see to his needs. Hell, they won’t even pick up the whole dinner tab.
I think the part where you invited his feedback is very important here.


If you haven't done that perhaps it would be a both parties situation. But you clearly and directly gave him a choice to make. Does he disrespect or defend you?


He chose disrespect. I don't even think what you said is disrespectful it is a factual statement that hurts like saying someone has a drinking problem or something like that.


NTA for sure
NTA!!!!! 😂

"You're too broke to be the sole breadwinner."

Man, for him being ( or at least adopting in front of mommy and daddy ) the "Me man me work, wife cook" mentality. Having the reality of "you can't actually provide for a family" thrown in his face is epic.

His ego wrote a check his ass can't cash.
Well played.  What else could you do? Your husband shamed you and he did it knowing HIS children were watching. 

>”Tradition is tradition for a reason.” 

What crust! There are people who still think the earth is flat. Doesn’t make them right. 

NTA
NTA 

Fun fact. Heterosexual monogamy lengthens a man's life and shortens a woman's. 

Your husband needs to correct his parents. He's either married to you or them, but not both. Maybe he should go back with them and his mom can dote on him.
*"He said tradition was tradition for a reason and it was kind of insulting that I thought I was too good for how he was raised."*

then he needs to find a job that actually makes enough to "*keep up the tradition*", he wants you to be a tradwife and mother but also that you keep working so you don't become destitute? what is he going to do in the meanwhile? go to work and return home to "*take off the boots and decompress with a beer on the sofa smoking a big cigar*" or some shit like that?

he was hurt because it was the truth, you are his companion and partner not his incubator and housemaid, if he was incapable of accepting that I don't know why in hell he got married when he wasn't ready to compromise and built up each other

NTA OP, you're a responsable, independent adult like he should be
NTA 

>My MIL was still going on about what was wrong with me and why I was a failure. I asked my husband if he had anything to say. He said his mother had a point and it wouldn't hurt if I acted 'more like a proper woman' and 'took better care of my home and children'. He said tradition was tradition for a reason and it was kind of insulting that I thought I was too good for how he was raised. 

>This is where I might be the asshole. I told him tradition won't allow a man on 35k to support a family of 5 and he was too broke to be so sexist.

NTA I agree what you said needed to be said. Especially since your in law's were present. I also agree it should not have been said in front of your children. 

Your husband let his parents get into his head space and he ran with it. I don't think it's helpful to hurt your partner's feeling in a relationship. However, occasionally you need to take a stand. I was home on maternity leave and I was helping a friend plan a shower. My husband magnanimously offered to babysit when I went out to meet my friend to discuss the plans and grab a few decorations. Let's leave it at a rather lively discussion ensued regarding parenting vs babysitting and my husband never offered to "babysit" our children again.
NTA So he can dish it out but not take it? And your mil needs to learn her place. She has no right to talk to you like that.
Jesus, I apologize for this, but that's pathetic of your husband.  NTA.  Your husband has a lot of apologizing to do to you.  In the future, I'd forbid his parents coming over to the house.
So it was fine for him to humiliate you in front of your children? Do you have a daughter that just saw how he allowed his mother to put you down and devalue your contribution? Tonight might have undone all of the hard work that you guys have put into teaching your kids that each partner has equal value. You did not deserve this. He absolutely deserved what you gave him. You need to have a really serious talk with your husband. His behavior is absolutely disgusting. NTA. You deserve so much better then this.
Your husband and his family insulted and tried demeaning you IN FRONT OF YOUR CHILDREN.  I am not mad your kids heard the truth about traditional families.  They are also learning about toxic families.  You know what is right
 I hope your husband grows a spine. I also hope you address the outdated gender norms and let them know it's OK to bake cookies even if you look like a lumberjack. Teach them strength of character.
NTA. Clearly. If he had a spine and stood up to his parents, maybe his feelings wouldn't be hurt. You need to form a united front against his parents or tell him they are not welcome in your home. And then kick them out early. So rude.
NTA it’s ironic that your husband was listening to his mommy, a woman. Shouldn’t a traditional man not take the advice of a woman and run the household as they see fit? Clearly he doesn’t live up to the traditional dynamic in more than one way
NTA Please tell me you also invited your in laws to leave for violating the agreed upon boundaries.
NTA, I laughed at this actually. My older brother is one of those MAGA evangelical Americans who believes deeply in traditional marriage roles. The last time we talked about his views of how unfulfilled my single, childless life is, I reminded him that he works part time at a McDonalds and can’t even pay rent without his wife working, so clearly the Traditional Male Provider role isn’t one he fills either.

If men dish it out, they need to take it back. Women shouldn’t have to live in squalor just because Mommy’s Special Little Boy gets pissy about doing fucking dishes while their wife makes money. Grow up.
Obviously you're NTA and I first felt a little icky about you having said it in front of the kids but you know what? They need to hear it too! It's not an insult that his salary alone cant support a family of 5, it's reality. He's insulted because his family brainwashed him into thinking his entire self worth hangs on being the sole provider. He can't afford a housewife and that's ok. What isn't ok is expecting you to do housewife duties and financial provider duties at the same time, without allowing you a say on what YOU want for yourself. He/they are out of their minds.
NTA

Coward? Another c word also springs to mind but this isn’t the Scotland subreddit so will keep that one to myself
NTA. If he likes tradition so much he can take out the trash… in this case, his parents.
It’s really funny how the “traditional values” crowd really don’t seem to care about… masculinity in this situation. Like others have said, it’s quite cowardly that your husband just sat there and let his mommy berate you for an arrangement that he was clearly already comfortable with.
NTA 
Weren't you a very nice person to order food for everyone because husband and in-laws sure as sugar would have gone hungry in my House. That's their last visit to your home I assume because they are causing a wedge in your marriage and your husband is too much or a coward to stand up to them. He's welcome to go back to his mother if that's the life he wants.
NTA. I would say that you didn't think how much your comments hurt your husband except that your husband told you that you need to act like a proper woman without thinking of your feelings. As they say, if you can't take it? Don't dish it out. Your husband dished, you dished back. You are NTA but your marriage is in trouble, or at least your relationship is in trouble and your husband needs to acknowledge his role in this. Sounds like you already get that you had a hand.
Your Mom rocks. She taught you well and you took that lesson to heart. NTA. And no, maybe those exact words should not have been said in front of the kids, but watching their grandmother attack their mother and call her not a real woman, and hear and see their father not defend her, had to be addressed in the moment AND in front of the children.
>I just walked away and ordered takeaway. I dished up for me and my kids and we sat at the table to eat. My husband and his parents served themselves and joined us. 

I would have told them to get their own dinner ¯\\\_(ツ)_/¯

Nta but your husband and his mother are
Looks like the patriarchy didn't work out so well for him.

NTA 

Why didn't your mother in law cook dinner? Isn't that her job?
If ANYONE called me a failure in my own home, they would be out the door so fucking fast.
This made me laugh so fucking hard. NTA dude. NTA at all. I'm glad he cried. I hope he thinks about it nonstop, and it gnaws at him what a failure he is according to his own standard.
NTA - first off never bow before your in-laws again. Next, do not allow your in-laws into your home again without an apology and a one-time-only promise to NEVER mention this 'tradition' nonsense. Finally, make it clear to your husband that he needs to back you up or go live with his parents.
ABSOLUTELY NTA. What the heck is wrong with people sometimes?? While I do understand the husband wanted to be acknowledge by his parents, throwing away an agreement with YOUR OWN PARTNER, that had worked so well and required so much effort and time, just to make them happy is such a bewildering action. 
OP, your words may be harsh, but it's very much the truth. With the world's current economic fluctuations, it's difficult to survive on one's paycheck, especially when the paycheck is used for an entire family of 5. There are jobs that would definitely allow people to be the sole breadwinner, but your husband is not one of those lucky ones and he should be GRATEFUL that he is not shouldering it alone. Jeez, we are in the 21th century, no need to bring up past traditions.
It would be a cold day in hell before I let his parents sit foot in my house again. I hope you feel the same way. 

Sometimes the truth hurts, and apparently if he’s going to act like that and be a spineless dweeb when his mother‘s “working” on him, he deserved it. NTA
Lmao. Another man that wants a "traditional woman" but can't afford to support one.


Where the hell have all these men come from who go on about being providers and how women aren't feminine anymore and don't dote on their husbands enough etc etc. But they can't even afford to support their family. 


Same men who go on about gold diggers yet they're broke. Lmao. There's no gold to dig!


I'd seriously reconsider staying with your asshole husband. What a loser. NTA 
Hell no. Your husband is letting them treat you badly and then heaping into it himself. They all deserved way more than that. I hope he has good has very good qualities elsewhere to make up for this. Nta
NTA

He allowed his mother to disrespect you in your own home in front of your children 

You needed a man and a partner who had your back and would protect you and the arrangement that you both agreed upon.   

Instead you came home to a boy looking for his mother’s approval who was willing to pile on the disrespect to you in front of your kids and double down on “tradition” while HE benefits financially from your “non-traditional” arrangement 

I would have done a lot worse than remind him of the financial reality of the situation in front of the kids 

You showed your kids that they don’t have to take crap in public from ANYONE   

Good job mom
Why would that make you the ass hole? He decided it was OK to agree with his mom that you're not traditional enough, while he can't hold his traditional role as the breadwinner. He doesn't gwt to insult you then run off crying because you dished it back. I'm guessing your income in much higher than his, he's a clears. Mayne he should move back in with mommy
NTA but your MIL is and your husband is a wuss.
NTA if hubby wants to live like Mom and Dad, let him live with them.
NTA.

Next time, the ILs can get a hotel for their visit. 

Husband knows better, yet still caved under the pressure from his parents. He deserved to be shamed. Maybe they'll  take the hint to butt out of his marriage.

Might also be a good idea to look into marriage therapy to help the husband learn to stand up to his parents and finish unlearning the damaging things they've taught him.
NTA. He let his mother insult you in your own home, at your own table, in front of your children and backed her up on it. He needed to hear what you said. He clearly needs to grow a backbone and stand up to his parents. Until that happens you have to at least show that you won't tolerate it-- for the sake of your marriage as well as modeling appropriate behaviors for your kids. Your mil and husband were way out of line and they need to recognize that.
NTA 

Frankly you were pretty tame. He said he wanted you to act more like a trad wife, well then he needs to act more like a trad husband (that means complete financial support).

Also, I would not have ordered food for him and his parents.
The audacity to start crying after saying sexist crap to your wife is crazy. NTA
My MIL is the same. HATES me because I’m a modern woman who makes more money than her son. She regularly rants to him about how I’m going to make a bad mother because I’m too focused on my career and I travel too much for work. My partner refuses to talk to her about it. Refuses to interrupt her when she begins one of her rants about me. Funny how these SAHMs of the previous generation raised such spineless men.
NTA.  Your MIL is not the best person in the world to be around, and hubby needs to grow up.
NTA, good for you for not supporting this sort of misogynistic nonsense, your husband completely lacks spine.
NTA. he deserved that. family of 5 on 35k? fuck that noise
Nope, NTS. He said it himself. Tradition is tradition for a reason. TRADITIONALLY, men provided, and women stayed home  raised the kids. If you are working full time and he benefits from that, you are not a TRADITIONAL household. He needs to grow up and stop letting his Mommy run him.
NTA. Your kids had already been brought into this by MIL and husband. How awful for them to have to sit and listen to Grandma and Dad attack and belittle their mom. Humiliating your husband before the kids is not ideal but it was an ugly situation. They did need to hear you stick up for yourself.

Never have your in-laws in your home again. If you choose to see them again, you have to be in a position to leave quickly if they start up with this nonsense.
NTA.  Your MIL is interfering in your marriage and in the way you and your husband have agreed to run your home.  You were much kinder than I would have been.

I would have eaten, fed the children, and thrown the rest of the food in the trash rather than feed your MIL and husband.  After eating,
I would have thrown her out of the house too. 
Nta

How is he gonna be the man of the house when he doesnt have the balls to stand up to his mommy. 

He needed the reality check. 

Please update because I wanna know his excuses
It's not good for children to see their parents fight. But it would be much, much worse for children to see their father denigrate their mother and see their mother roll over and take it. Congrats on your shiny spine, OP; what a shame your husband's spine is wet tissue paper. 

NTA.
If his mother is such a good traditional wife, why is she A. Not making the dinner to feed her son and grandchildren and B. Speaking in front of men, out of turn?
I am a traditional man, mom was SAHM but I am raising my daughters to never be dependent on a man in marriage. Or rather never stay in bad marriage coz they have no financial independence. I don’t think what you said was wrong or being an AH. He needs to find his spine and and his values. If his values are those of his parents then he needs to decide that and move on with his life. If he doesn’t agree with them then he shouldn’t be asking unless he can afford to pay for it
NTA. Why didn't his mother cook? She neither worked not cleaned. She has no value; she doesn't eat! Tradition is tradition for a reason!
He fucked around…
"My husband worked hard to unlearn the values he saw replicated at home."

He obviously only made progress when said progress was never tested. You just experienced what it is like when 'push comes to shove'.

You need to sit him down and drill into this. Either he supports you at all times as you are, or he doesn't. He can't accept the kudos for working to get past his upbringing while also undermining you in front of your kids.

Finally, "He said tradition was tradition for a reason and *it was kind of insulting* that I thought I was *too good for how he was raised.*" This is incredibly telling. Either this is how he really feels and his support has been only 'until you see the light' or he's so spineless around his parents that he'll always defer to them.
I (60f) married a man raised in a traditional middle eastern home. We did not follow that route. One day I was busy with our two young children. His mother was visiting and came into the room yelling at me asking if I wanted him to be sick. I looked at her, confused and said no, why? 
‘Well he’s ironing his shirts. WHY IS HE IRONING HIS SHIRTS?!’ 
I’m less confused but decided to roll with it ‘because they are wrinkled and he wants to wear them’. 
Later I asked my husband what that was all about. He said she was pissed because she tried to take the iron from him and he wouldn’t let her. 
I’m sure she’s still appalled. But we kept a united front that our marriage was not theirs. 

If he had pulled this shit he’d have had serious regrets. I would have said exactly the same thing. And probably told my MIL off. He was a total ass and needed the reality check. The thing is that it’s not about how much he makes. It’s about you both working in careers and sharing the load. This whole trad wife is very much a modern construct.
"I asked my husband if he had anything to say."

You gave him the explicit opportunity to stand up for you and his family.  He chose...poorly.

NTA
NTA - FAFO.  Honestly his parents can no longer stay with your family if this the result
NTA - No idea how old your kids are but I would’ve just spoken to them and ignore your sexist ILs and husband. 

“Kids I’m so sorry you have to see your father like this right now. You see, your grandparents (husbands parents) raised him so poorly that even as an adult he’s unable to stand by his convictions and stand up for what’s right. I’m so sorry you had to hear your father and grandparents say these horribly sexist things but you will always learn from us. And right now your grandmother & father simply showing you what not to do/be when you grow up.” 


Ps your ILs are a nightmare and if I were you they would be banned from my house. Let them get a hotel and have the staff there wait on them.
Welcome to /r/AmITheAsshole. Please view our [voting guide here](https://www.reddit.com/r/AmItheAsshole/wiki/faq#wiki_what.2019s_with_these_acronyms.3F_what_do_they_mean.3F), and remember to use **only one** judgement in your comment.

OP has offered the following explanation for why they think they might be the asshole:

 > B/c I put him down in front of out kids. I let my temper get the better of me.

Help keep the sub engaging!

#Don’t downvote assholes!

Do upvote interesting posts!

 [Click Here For Our Rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/AmItheAsshole/about/rules) and [Click Here For Our FAQ](https://www.reddit.com/r/AmItheAsshole/wiki/faq)

##Subreddit Announcements

Follow the link above to learn more

---

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose/?to=/r/AmItheAsshole) if you have any questions or concerns.*

*Contest mode is 1.5 hours long on this post.*
NTA, by a long shot. 

Tell your husband if he wants that perfect little wife then he can move back in with his parents. His mom has no issues living that life. Bye boy
NTA

Your husband allowed his mother to disrespect you in your own home, then proceeded to disrespect you himself in front of your children. You need to talk it out, but your children don't need to be internalizing your husband's messaging by you biting your tongue and allowing that, either.

You need a big talk with your husband. Remind him he knew who he married, and if he was no longer interested in the partnership you offered, he can go elsewhere. I would also make it very clear he can visit his parents on his own now- they were rude guests to you, and you don't have to tolerate that nor let your children hear it
NTA. If anyone needs to be feeling bad about setting a bad example for the kids, it is your husband and MIL.  You showed your kids that it is totally acceptable to snap back at someone when they are being a jerk.  Way too frequently kids see their mothers being a doormat to an asshole man. That is the kind of thing that screws up a kid.
Slavery was traditional. Child labor was traditional. Women not being allowed to own property, have bank accounts or credit, all traditional. Some traditions are nice and others are utter rubbish.  Some work for some people and not others.   Hubby needs to stop listening to mommy and start respecting his wife.
Slayed. He acted like a coward. And while unlearning is not a linear journey, he knew exactly what he was doing and why it was wrong. So NTA
NTA. 

You're right - he's too broke for a housewife. 

If he wants that dynamic the real question is not about you but instead - why is he failing at his role as a man (by their traditional logic, not mine) to provide enough money for his family by himself? 
It's a fair criticism. It's literally the equivalent to the grief they're giving you. 

Also, if he wants to be a  "traditional" man he needs to be strong enough to stand up for his wife. Also an area he's failing. Is he okay appearing so weak as a man?
NTA, It's a shame no one asked your children to leave the room before the whole table began to disrespect each other. I would have permitted my children to eat in their rooms so I could properly wipe the floor with these people since it was clear a confrontation was in the works. You should have also included that a traditional man stands up for his wife no matter who is disrespecting her but since there's no traditional man there and just a cowardly mama's boy, you've had to take it upon yourself to defend your household.
NTA. I would have ordered for me and the kids then told him "since you want to listen to your mother so much, then you need to make sure you and your parents eat. I am ordering nothing for you or them".

Your MIL is jealous of the ability you have not to be trapped.

P.S. They would be banned from ever staying with me again.
NTA, at all. This is absolutely a hill to die on.

My one quibble is putting all of the focus on his salary. Yes, it is comically insufficient to support a family of 5, but even if he made ten times that much, it wouldn't give him the right to expect a subservient tradwife. I would focus more on him allowing his parents to disrespect you in your own home, in front of your children. That is quite frankly divorce-worthy- and I don't say that lightly.
You needed to say that in front of your children so that they would know that what he said was wrong. I'm sorry but I couldn't come back from this. Either he really feels this way and hides it because he's s too much of a wimp to tell you or he's too much of a wimp to stand up to his parents.
NTA, in fact i think you were way way too nice and you should have just told them all to get the fuck out of your house tbh.
Ew. I would be contemplating whether I wanted to stay with him., and I would never allow his parents in my home again. They can eat rocks.
You regret saying it? Did he regret what his mom is saying. He’s too much of a loser and mommy’s boy too be in a traditional marriage. 

Tell him you will be a traditional wife once he makes at least $150,000 a year at least.
NTA Play stupid games, win stupid prizes. He doesn't want to look bad in front of his parents, so he's upsetting the person he lives with? Bad call. He needs to shine up his spine, and the in-laws need to stop criticizing you or they need to go to a hotel for the remainder of their visit. They don't like how you run *your* home? They can leave.
We need a Justified Asshole tag.  Because it fits here.

NTA

You hit him where it hurts.  He doesn't earn enough to support his family the way his parents and he want.  He needs you for that.  That makes him look like less of a man in his, and his parents eyes.  No doubt he's likely going to hear about it from his parents now.  You shattered his ego in front of the worst people to shatter it in front of.  Can't call you an asshole for that, especially with how you were being treated in your own home.
>tradition won't allow a man on 35k to support a family of 5  
 

35K USD per year? Your husband should prepare not only dinner but breakfast too.

And, more than that, he should have something to say to the MIL.

NTA.
 NTA- it’s also time you tell your in laws they need to leave. Cuz you won’t let your kids be poisoned by their toxic mindset. If they refuse and your husband backs them up, pack bags for you and the kids and find another place to stay for the next few days. 

If you do leave tell your  husband he better have made an couples counseling appointment and if he doesn’t you will be happy to see if he applies for alimony or child support after you talk to a divorce lawyer
NTA:  UPDATE PLEASE
NTA. I just want to know how husband and the in-laws served themselves dinner because there is NO. WAY. I would have ordered enough that anyone besides myself and my children would have gotten a damned thing. They would have been standing there watching me eat until someone got off their butt and cooked for themselves. That is ridiculous.
The secondhand rage I felt when reading this. NTA. Agree with others that it sucks your kids were witness, but they were there for his sexist bullshit, too, and seeing you stand up to him and your ILs was important. Also, what you said was harsh, but more importantly, it *wasn’t wrong.* The whole dreamland wish of a “traditional” family structure crumbles if the breadwinner *isn’t bringing home enough bread.*

Edit to emphasize cause I keep seeing it: *He said what he said in front of your kids, too.* And if you hadn’t rebuked him, then what message would they have received? Could you have done it differently? Sure. But he belittled and betrayed you in front of your children first. Two wrongs, and all, but they should never have heard him talk to you that way either.
NTA. He 100% deserved it. Your kids now know what their grandparents and father think are appropriate ways to speak to their mother. You showed them to stand up for themselves
Next time, just grab the kids and take them out for dinner. The IL’s seem to forget or ignore the fact that you’re the breadwinner. Can’t have it both ways. The times have changed and a lot of families manage their lives in a vastly different way. I would have a serious talk with your husband when they leave, maybe with a therapist if you can. Set up firm clear boundaries with the in-laws about their behaviors if they plan on visiting next time. You’re most def NTA
You where Nicer than I would have been.
Omg NTA you are a LEGEND
Temporary Separation. If time apart doesn't knock some sense into him along with a well-deserved apology to you AND the kids ( because that'll definitely set an example to them), then permanently divorce. 

You only miss something when you lose it.
NTA. What a spineless boy.
Just after cleaning up , I would have offered to help MIL
 Pack  their suitcases, for their return trip home tomorrow.    The least gracious guest ever, tromping on boundaries long established.  Shame on MIL, and shame on  son/ spouse.
Obviously very late, so I don't know if you'll see this, but I want to stress that he belittled and allowed his mother to belittle you in front of your kids. So standing up for yourself and pointing out his hypocrisy in front of them was necessary. They shouldn't be seeing any of this. It's absolutely galling that your husband hasn't nipped this in the bud years ago. 

Offer to quit your job and be SAH (obviously not for real). See how that goes over. I'm sure you hurt his feelings but he was being cruel to you first, acting cowardly, and shaming you. I hope since the time you posted this that you've worked this out with him. I would no longer tolerate even a shred of crap from the ILs going forward.

I bet he's feeling low about his financial misfortunes and often when that happens (or anything that can cause unhappiness or depression), a lot of men become vulnerable to shitty ideals, ones that falsely prop them up or inflate their ego. It's not an excuse, but it could be the cause.
And in some traditional cultures grandmothers do a lot of housework and childcare. Tell her to get to cleaning, cooking, and babysitting! NTA but your husband clearly shares his family’s ideas, so you have lots of reconsidering to do about who this man is.

Edit: misspelling
Nope, NTA. 

Your husband allowed his mother to attempt to humiliate you in your own home, because you didn't live up to her expectations as a wife and mother. You simply returned the favor when you reminded him that your household needs 2 incomes to function. Do not regret saying this in front of your kids - they should see that their grandmother and father behaved in an atrocious fashion, and that you will not tolerate that bullshit in your own home.
Nta and you're my hero for how succinctly you shut that shit down
NTA and I would go on strike the rest of the visit - if he is going to act that way he and his sexist parents deserve it. Take your kids to dinner - grab takeout and have a picnic in the park etc- I would not lift a finger the rest of this visit.
NTA. And I don't think it was bad for kids to see this, they should learn about boundaries and standing up for yourself sooner rather than later (even to family). Your man needs to find his spine.
Honestly, it's good the kids were there to hear it - imagine the BS they're being fed when you're not around.  NTA, but you not only have in-law problems, you have a husband problem now too.
NTA. Bravo! You just gave us a master class on how to deal with foolishness. Explain your boundaries, don’t put up with mess, and stick to your boundaries.

If anything, you should have told your MIL and husband off from the start. Nobody should come into your home and criticize your life, especially in front of your children. Your husband and MIL’s actions were presented in front of your family so it was important that you show your kids that you reinforce boundaries and that you model the person you want them to be. I have to wonder what your MIL thinks about her son. Have you asked her why she doesn’t harass her son to get a better job? And I wonder why your husband feels comfortable flipping the script when his parents are around? Regardless, you need to do a little more to put your foot down about this. Tell your MIL not to visit if she can’t keep her opinions to herself. And tell your husband that he will continue to be embarrassed every time he puts on a show for mommy and daddy and pretends that he can fully take on a “traditional” role. Tell him that you’ve got a lot more one liners to get your point across. And then pass your views on financial independence to your kids and let them know that it’s ok to stick up for yourself. 
Your kids needed to hear that too since they were hearing their GMA say everything else all day long (presumably). NTA.  They all learned today!
So they are guest in your house? I believe I would be making them get a hotel. Guest don’t dictate how a home is run, but a husband should also stand up for his wife. You need to have a conversation with your husband. And whatever you do, DO NOT APOLOGIZE. Yeah words hurt, but the truth needed to be told. He honestly expected you to cook dinner? I would have grabbed the kids and went out to eat without him or his “mommy”.
NTA, but you had to say that in front of your kids because of what he said in front of them. If you hadn't, your children might have modeled his attitude.
NTA, yes, this conversation should never have happened in front the kids, but he needed a reality check. If he’d been my husband I’d have told him to go home with his parents and not come back until he was ready to be the husband he’d agreed to be when you discussed the details of how your marriage would work. And his parents would no longer be welcome in the home since he can’t stand up to them.
What he said in front of your children was WORSE! If they grow up with that belief your sons will think they deserve to be served by women and daughters will think they must be the servant, which is NOT how a marriage should work. If a couple is happy to have a father that works all day to support and mother stays home, that's great but that is an agreement. Your family to this point hasn't worked like that and just because his parents are there it shouldn't change. 

I would have a private conversation and explain how hurt you were by him just sitting there and agreeing with them and basically saying the workings of your household was wrong. Personally I would have said much worse, probably along the lines of "So now you are okay with promoting an outdated sexist point of view that make the wife essentially a sex slave and servant to her husband?" But then my kids would have also said something to their father for trying to make such comments about my "place" in the household and all hell would have broke loose.

NTA
OP, I'd love for you to get your parents over and openly mock how your husband is not a proper man because he doesn't earn enough to support his family. He makes you work because he's not enough of a man to earn enough. Imagine your dad telling him in a disgusted tone that he is not providing for his daughter and grandkids and therefore isn't a proper man. He would be in tears before your dad finished his sentence because he's a pathetic little mummy's boy. Get him gone, OP, he's a bad husband and father and the amount of work it will take to potentially turn him into an ok one is huge. The juice definitely isn't worth the squeeze. Get him away from you and your kids.
Surely he was already aware of his earning disability 
This!

OP, you *gave* your husband the opportunity to stand up to his family/stand up for you, and he rejected it. Therefore, *in front of your children* he was agreeing that you were not doing your job as a wife. That is an objectively sexist message (no shade on SAH wives or anyone who finds fulfillment in being a homemaker, but people should fill that role because they *want* to or because it works for *their* family... It's wrong to impose that on others due to their gender). 

Once he declined to refute the sexist statement, it was your obligation as a parent to indicate that it *was* a sexist statement and how inappropriate it was. Were there ways you could have done that without pointing out his embarrassing hypocrisy? Sure. But you didn't *owe* him that and you are NTA for choosing this way of standing up to him.

In fact, my inclination also would have been to order dinner for just you and the kids, leaving him and his parents to fend for themselves. You were at least kind enough to get them food after their initial bout of treating you disrespectfully
> He chose to upset you versus upsetting his mother.

Mama's boys don't make very good husbands.
[deleted]
I agree with you here - I think it was important to stand up for herself in front of the kids. I would be APPALLED if my husband said any of this to me.
If husband hadn't thrown OP under the bus, she wouldn't have thrown him in front of the next one.

Edit to add: I'm agreeing with you
Honestly I’d of kicked them out of my house and if they refused to go/husband stopped it I’d of booked a hotel and left so he could see what the tradition of divorce is like given he’s so excited to try traditional things. Also the previous arrangement of being a respectful DIL at their house would be out of the window. They broke my boundary at my house I’m not lifting a finger at theirs.
Them helping themselves to the food SHE PAID FOR was just the frosting on the cornflakes. 

I’d have taken them all down, piece by piece, that MIL especially. The audacity
Exactly! Everything said & i definitely wouldve taken the kids out to eat & left MIL to cook for her son & FIL. NTA OP but your husband & his family definitely are A H. He doesn’t have a leg to stand on. I’m so tired of these broke a$$ man-childs who claim they want a trad-wife but refuse to be a trad-husband. Tell that to pita MIL
He expected her to eat sht and not make a scene in front of his parents. It's disrespectful and gross and no they would know exactly why the kids will never be around people that talk about their mother that way. He can stay home if he thinks it's that important, unless they think his dick will prevent him from cooking again?
Not only did he need to hear it, but so did his parents. 

I was married for 21 years to a man who was great.  He respected me and did his thing around the house.  We were really happy for the first half of the marriage.   Then we had kids, and he started letting his mom get into his head.   I made about 20k a year more and carried all of our families health benefits, but his mom would look me in the eye and call me a liar.  No company would pay a woman what I claimed to make.  

Now we've been divorced for 7 years.  His business is failing. He may lose his house.  He has medicaid and food stamps.  The kids stopped living with him because he is so angry. I didn't do this to him, I just stopped being his wife.  Maybe some cold reality would have saved our marriage.   Maybe it wouldn't have.  I guess I'll think about that while I'm with my adult children on a beach in Hawaii next summer.   

I wish that even just once, he would have stood up for me.
Agree with all of this, and I’d ban his parents from the family home as well ✨
All of this.

The appropriate response to this is to tell the in-laws they need to leave early (as in "pack your shit and get the fuck out of my house") and tell the husband in no uncertain terms that if he EVER tries to put you down like that again, his salary will be used to support the family through the traditional means of court ordered child support. A marriage is a team and he is expected to be on your side on things you have agreed on. 

You should also make it clear that the ONLY reason he's getting this warning is because he's proven through his behaviour that he is capable of being a good husband, but that applies all the time, not just when his parents aren't there to see.
Oh no, he doesn't expect her to stop working to be a homemaker, he expects her to work *and* be a homemaker.
>Frankly, he needed to hear it!


So did the in laws.  Reality check was required there too.  Totally agree with everything you've said
I love that joke
"husband comes home to SAHM and says" you've been at home all day, why isn't the house clean? "
She replies" you've been at work all day - why aren't we rich? "
At the very least, that would be the last time I would entertain the in-laws at my home. I'd be tempted to ban them all together, but perhaps staying with friends or getting a lovely hotel room and relaxing while Hubby and his parents manage the house and kids until they leave would give OP a nice mental health break.

Edit because the more I think about this the more it ticks me off. 

I hope OP asks her husband to present a financial plan for how all the bills will be paid if she quits her job to "act more like a proper woman and take better care of my home and children".  They can then present the the In-Laws with the dollar amount they are expected to contribute monthly to cover the shortfall since they're so invested in their son having a "traditional wife".  Of course, we all understand that their vision is that she keep working full time AND doing all the domestic work so he can relax and feel like a "real man".  But that's not going to happen, so they can STFU and mind their business.   OP's husband needs to be groveling for going along with his Mommy disrespecting and demeaning OP in their own home.  It sounds like he would benefit from therapy to help him learn how to stand up to his parents and be a supportive spouse.  Even then, it would be a long damn time before I forgot about his spineless behavior.
On top of all of that, he allowed it in front of his children! That blew my mind. What exactly is he trying to teach them here? If she didn’t say it publicly, and let him see her saying it publicly, then it would just teach him that she’s okay with teaching the children this. And it would teach the children that she’s okay with this. Instead, they got to see a strong mother stand up for herself, her values, and her family. Well done, op!
lol my response would have been (in hindsight, likely as I think to myself in the shower days later): “would you like me to leave this marriage in the “traditional” way women left marriages?”

Hint: it wasn’t divorce.
Yea i hate going to divorce too, but this is getting there if he doesn't do anything. He need therapy and clearer boundaries.
No. Just no. Why are y'all acting like the husband's parents "got to his head". He definitely was already a pathetic loser who definitely whined behind wife's back about her being "modern". 

A man with a strong mindset who loves his life with his wife won't ever be swayed by what anyone else has got to say about their lifestyle. 

A grown ass adult cannot be "turned against" you. Wow, talk about infantilisation of men. Men aren't children.
I too was surprised that she ordered enough for MIL and hubby!
If he hadn't popped off in front of the kids it wouldn't have been said in front of the kids. someone needed to correct him in front of them so they know he was wrong. that is too big of a value to just let pass
Also sucks the kids had to hear the father's statements about being a traditional wife

Edited for spelling
I assume all the other comments were said in front of your children. Why is it ok for him to humiliate you but not the other way around?
If it was ok with him for his mother to spout the sexism in front of his kids, then he can’t complain about getting what he deserved in front of the kids. 
They were happy enough to call you a failure, demand you adhere to sexist crap in front of the kids, so why does his feelings get higher regard than yours.



They were also happy to make the kids go hungry to make their point.


They can go back home.
YUP. The second MIL and hubs came slithering over for food, OP should have stopped them in tracks and hit them with a quip. “As a modern mother, this modern takeout is far too modern for you and hubs. MIL, as a traditional wife please cook a traditional dinner for you and hubs. Thank you~”
Honestly, it's GREAT the kids where there to see their mother stand up to outdated sexist notions.
No. I mean the kids shouldn't have heard any of this, but it would've been way worse if OP had just sat there and let her MIL and her own damn husband berate her like this and just took it. That would've been a bad role model!

NTA. Definitely NTA.

>He looked hurt and I saw tears welling in his eyes. 

Well, isn't he precious. As if being double-crossed by your own damn husband doesn't hurt!

You need to have serious talk with your husband. For one thing, he needs to know the *depths* of your disappointment. Moreover, he needs to grow a spine and shut down his mother down when she denigrates you. Not just once. Every damn time!

"Mum, Stop it. If I wanted a traditional woman I would've married a traditional woman. Now, pass the salt."

That's all he needs to say. Unless he secretly agrees with his harpy of a mother. In that case: couple's therapy and, if that fails, divorce his ass! Life is too short to be with anyone who thinks that they're better than you and deserving of a life of leisure simply on account being born with a penis.
I wanted to ha, but I couldn't quite bring myself to do it.
The children needed to hear that. If they were going traditional they would need money or resources. None of which dad has. It would be false advertisement if she allowed it to continue. 
OP NTA & you are so correct, I  would have gone 1 step further and taken the kids out to eat.
The fact that you let them take food OP... I don't think I would have been civil
Honestly “you’re too broke to be sexist” is a banger of a line
I thought the same. 
He said something vile in front of the kids too, let’s not forget. Does he thinks his sexism won’t rub off on his children? He deserves worse. NTA
Good that the kids were there for it. They shouldn’t think you can talk to a woman like that and she should silently take it so she doesn’t embarrass a man. A man who demanded her service and insulted her unprovoked.
I don't think that it sucks that the kids heard it. They need to. If one of them wants to go the route of being/ having a SAH partner someday, that's their choice, but they need to understand the cost of that choice. Better to understand the reality of that choice rather than growing up with some idealistic version of it.
He said all those horrible things in front of the kids as well and allowed grandma to berate their mother, took his mom's side over his wife's in a disagreement with a rude guest. I would divorce him for any one of those things, but all of them in 2 minutes?! Kick him and his parents out of the house.
It goes both ways. How dare he say she should act 'more like a proper woman' and 'took better care of my home and children' in front of the children. That's just as bad as what OP said to him. What's up with his use of MY home bs?  At least OP was speaking the truth.
I don’t really feel that it was inappropriate for their kids to hear what OP said since they heard what MIL and husband said. Good for them to SEE their mom stand up for herself. It’s nothing to be ashamed of.
Sometimes kids need to hear these things. Because what they were watching is their mother being treated like a second class slave. 

OP NTA
The kids were also present for her MIL trashing her and Husband doubling down on it. If they can hear her being degraded, they can hear her stand up for herself.
No it doesn't suck that the kids were there. My Dad told me at age 8, I couldn't pump gas because I was a girl. At age 12-13, my Mom walked into the bank with her new credit card and started yelling at them for issuing her credit card as Mrs. JOHN Doe and she told them that she qualified for that card under her name with only HER income and they had better reissue it with HER name. I have never forgotten these events that happened well over 40 years ago.
I really liked that OP's response specifically called him sexist. I think it was important to say that out loud in front of the kids.

Mind you, I'm hotheaded and would have said something really mean, lol. But I respect OP's response.
“Seeing as how you’re not a ‘real’ man, I can’t be a ‘real’ woman.”
Yeah she doesn’t have so much an in law problem as she does a husband problem.
Hubby was hurt at her brutal honesty about his inability to be a “traditional” husband- well he shouldn’t have been crapping all over her for not being a “traditional” wife
I love this. 

“Your bread winning wife is going to take herself and kids out to eat since your lack of spine means mommy in law’s ego is better taken care of than your wife and kids. She can cook for you like the real woman she is, sorry I was too busy providing for us 🤷🏻‍♀️”
Add in:

“Maybe if your shitty parents hadn’t failed you so badly, you’d be successful enough to be a traditional man, and I could stay home with the kids. But they clearly failed. I’m not sure why you’re taking advice from a mom who failed at the one job she had in life.”
fucking yes!!!!! This 100!!!!
Love this!
Oh yeah. And they had the AUDACITY to touch the food I paid for after saying that shit!? Id would have been meaner too and slapped their hand telling them to fuck off from my food.
I’d say “most” adult conversations should be private. But personally I’m glad she shut that sexist shit down in front of them. They will learn more good than bad from seeing her stand up to her weak husband and his shitty mom
Exactly. FAFO is real. Spineless hubby needs a pair, and counseling might help him use the pair to stand up to toxic parents.
Especially if you have daughters.
Yes great post
she says she's a guest so she shouldn't but ends up in the kitchen when husband is cooking lol
You are absolutely spot on with saying it is a betrayal. Husband absolutely betrayed OP by allowing even the first sign of talking about his wife not being a 'proper woman'. I'm just trying to imagine what my reaction would be if my husband came out with this sort of shit in front of my kids and I honestly don't know what it would be. Blind, white hot rage to the point of being deathly calm would probably be my first reaction, but after that I'd be absolutely fucking heartbroken. There would be no coming back from this for me. It is absolutely a betrayal, like he is having an emotional affair with another woman (his mother in this case). The trust, respect, attraction, friendship, everything would be gone. He needs to move out, back with his mum and should only get supervised visitation with the children because god knows what kind of nonsense they'd be filling their heads with when they see them.
I can promise you the kids have heard stuff…no doubt the MIL has said things like “wouldn’t it be nice to have a stay-at-home mommy who could take care of you and be with you all the time?  You know I did it for you dad because I loved him so much it was important to be home.  If your mom loved you as much as she loves working…. Remember when you get married that good mothers and wives think the most important thing in the world are their children and their family and home.”  Things like that.  Things have definitely been said directly to the kids.
This should be much higher up. I can't imagine what is being said behind her back and in front of their children.
He thought he could break OP. That didn't happen, even after they had kids, so he called in reinforcements. Now he's cying because OP showed him just how strong she truly was.
YES! This hypocrisy blows my mind. There was a post that was cross-posted to Am I the Devil recently where a dude basically said women should be expected to work outside the home AND do all the domestic labour. What on EARTH would be the point in being a relationship where you’re responsible for absolutely everything? Do men seriously think that any woman thinks they’re desirable enough to put up with that?? Blows my mind.
>He chose disrespect.

I love that phrase.
So much this. You asking him is key. He has no one but himself to blame. He chose to be disrespectful in front of everyone. His tears aren't for you, but they should be.
I loved this too. If you want to enforce tradition in such a stupid way, at least make it work both ways lol.
Tradition is peer pressure from dead people.
Alternatively, sure there's a reason... And that reason is sexism etc.
Most traditions are completely obsolete.
I’d be grinning like a shark telling them “sure there’s a reason! Sexiest horrid oppressive reasons!”
"Well, yes dear. I do think I'm too good for how you were raised, because clearly you were raised poorly."
You know... Normally I think you shouldn't bring up dirt in front of the kids, but kids learn to normalize what their parents tolerates. 

She Needed to say something in front of them so they new mother in laws abuse and Daddy's weakness is not normal or right. Maybe not what was Said, but something.
I disagree - he said she wasn’t a good wife and mother in front of the children, she told him he wasn’t a good husband and father in front of his children.  He thought he could get away with it because his mommy was there.  He didn’t.
The children heard the MIL's sexism and berating the Mom for not being more "traditional." The children saw the Dad's spineless refusal to stand up for his wife and the mother of his kids. The children also needed to see the clap back, otherwise, they just get the side of the story where Mom is worth less.

NTA.
Nope, it NEEDED  to be said in front of the children. Displaying self confidence and self respect is extremely important for their future relationships. Especially when other family members are speaking ill of that person in front of the children. She did not cuss or yell. She was calm. Modeling standing up for oneself is a great lesson and a great skill to have.
If the sexism is spewed in front of the kids (“be more like a trad wife”) then the pushback is OK to be said in front of the kids
 Nope , it Needed to be said in front of the kids - else it would like that all the adults agree that women should be barefoot and pregnant and know their place. If the kid’s mom didn’t speak up when she did , it would be normalized and they would be just like their dad.
Meh. I personally think it’s kind of good the kids heard her. Gotta cut cancer out before it grows. And sexism is a cancer
If they were berating her in front of her kids in her home, she absolutely has a right to stand up for herself. Why would she teach her kids that that sort of bullying should be accepted?
You're like the Clint Eastwood of soccer moms. So badass.
In OPs own home, no less. MIL should have been out on her ass
Therapy at minimum. Part of me wonders if he just spouts whatever keeps him out of trouble the most. So when Mummy and Daddy visit, he's traditional, but when they're gone he's back to "Modern"
I have friends that have been NC with his family since before they were married for the very reason she makes 3x what he does AND their oldest is a girl and they 1000% did not want daughter to think she had to be lesser than her brothers.

The kids know there are 'parents' of their dad, but they also know these are not people that are nice or want what is best for their family.
This. ^^  It would be hard to move on from this kind of betrayal. Allowing his mother to speak to and about OP this way, AND THEN AGREEING AND JOINING IN ON THE INSULTS. What’s that phrase…. “et tu Brute?”
Alllllll of this! He’s a pathetic spineless coward. 

Kick them out and don’t allow them back into your home. IL’s for sure and probably DH too!
Plus why didn’t his mommy cook? She wasn’t at work all day, and she wants it be a woman’s job! What a lousy guest.
Spell this out for him and mommy. Today. They can't even live up to their ideals, why should OP???
Maybe wealthy men can afford "sister wives" and people like your brother could be "brother husbands." Two or three guys could all get together and support one woman to be a SAH wife. She could keep the house and they could all work to support the household. Three part-time McDonald's employees might be able to afford a two-bedroom apartment. Well, it might take more of them. Anyway, the master bedroom would be the wife's and the other bedroom could be furnished with bunkbeds for the men, and they could take turns staying in the master with the wife. Of course, if they wanted children they'd need more bedrooms, so they'd probably need to bring in more brother husbands. I'd feel really sorry for that wife, but if she wants a trad marriage, it can be hard to find one single man who can support that kind of household these days. 

I am kidding of course. Don't anybody get any ideas.
I would love to know how he responded. Not to belittle a job he and his kind insist are not deserving of a living wage and are “meant for teenagers,” but how in the hell does a grown man who only works part time at a fast food joint think he is better than you or anyone else?
Do we have the same brother? Although my brother does very well for himself and can actually put his money where his mouth is, he says the exact same shit.
Better for them to know that their father is a coward than learn: 

1. That their working mother doesn't care for them just because she has a job (which IMO is FAR more insulting that OP's comeback), 
2. That the only good option a woman has is to be a homemarker, 
3. That you can be bullied in your own home and just be quiet. 

And probably far more many things that I can't be bothered to write about right now. Yeah,  generally, it's better if the kids are not present, but they were already there, so the ILs and the father created the situation. OP navigated that pretty nicely, considering all of this because not only did she give the husband the opportunity to stand up for their family, but her argument was also based on reality.
Surely it's even more 'icky' that the kids have had two weeks of their grandparents being diabolically disrespectful to their mum, in her own home, and their dad has not only not defended his wife and how hard she works because he is unable to provide for his family 'like a proper man', but has actually actively chosen to join in the disrespect. To his own wife, the mother of his children, who is half the reason they have a home and the children are fed, happy and healthy. If he wants a housewife he needs to earn enough to pay for one, which would mean about a 150% pay increase. 
I feel so sorry for you, OP, not that you need or want pity, but I am just furious on your behalf. How fucking dare this man expect your home to be disrupted for weeks hosting his dinosaur parents, only for the three of them to treat you so appallingly. And he has the fucking gall to get teary when facts are told that he doesn't earn enough money to support the family, and not speak to you? Fuck that, every which way. I could not find this weak, coward of a man attractive after this. He needs to go back home to his mum, where I'm sure she'll treat him like the underachieving, mediocre, unattractive prince she's raised him to be.
Came here to say this. Even if he could afford op to stay home, she probably wouldn't because she loves her job ( clearly) this is 100% a controlling mil that has manipulated him for so long that even years later he feels he can't speak up around her. He seems to revert to his childhood whenever she wants him to. He needs some counseling for the dependency he has on their approval. Outside of this issue he seems like a good guy that's willing to do better and tear down those gender roles that were instilled in him.
I firmly believe that he started it infront of the kids and the kids NEED to see her stand up to it. The rest of the conversation should be behind closed doors then they should talk to the kids and explain everything. Kids are naive not stupid.
It's such a great word, here in America when you put it out and use it you can hear the gaps lol
That's exactly what I was thinking. Cooking dinner? Too emasculating. Not okay. But bowing under pressure from your parents as a grown man? Now that's real masculinity!
I honestly thought at first she only ordered for her and the kids and it would've been totally justified.
Exactly, what was your MIL doing all day while you were at work? She should have cooked dinner.

Also, NTA. You’re 100% correct.
It's been my experience that the man that goes on about "traditional women" usually can't afford one, and he knows it.  He's usually ranting about his idealized fantasy.  Reality, which dictates that HE has to pay for everything, doesn't figure into fantasy.

I've seen those same men flip from wanting a "tradwife" to being married and suddenly saying, "You're going to work a full-time job where you hand over your checks to me, take care of the house, the kids, and me, and cook at least one fine meal every day for all of us!  Wait, you want me to HELP because you can't do all of that by yourself?  No, no, I'm the man of the house, I work harder at my job, and all that housework and domestic work is beneath me!" without batting an eye at their own hypocrisy.

But it's what happens when someone who is immensely selfish is dealing with reality vs. what they think they want.  Their demands change, they contradict themselves in the changing, and they try to put the burdens all on another person, because they like to think that they deserve the servitude of another human being, and they're not about to work harder themselves to get the result.

There's a reason why men live longer when married, and women have a shorter lifespan when in the same arrangement.
Even if he could support it, the way he’s going about this is wrong. Money isn’t the issue, it was just the thing she highlighted to dig at him. He’s wrong regardless of what’s in his account. Mentioning money just validates people with it
I don't think they even ought to be around the kids anymore.
I think you should probably deal with this problem before you have kids.
In fact how did she even get out of the kitchen in the first place??!?!?!
It wasn’t about tradition. It was a power play on her part against OP. I suspect she is miserable in her own “traditional” role and wanted to take OP down a peg.
And found out.
I would have packed my kids up and left until they were gone. Then I would be looking at divorce because this is a HELL NO!!! See how much he likes paying child support. NTA

ETA: I was a SHAM for 20 years and have been working for the last 4 years. People wanted to talk shit about me being a SHAM. My husband never stood up for me even though it was a mutual agreement. It's one of the many reasons we are now separated.
I probably would have just packed up the kids and fucked off to a restaurant with them. Leave Mommy Dearest’s boy to fend for himself and his parents. What utterly useless people.
Exactly. All he had to say to his parents was, "It's 2024 and we don't live like that in our house."
In this day and age it's not feasible to provide for a family on one standard wage, like his parents could, it requires both parents to work, it's no longer possible to do things "traditionally" it's seems right how their household is set up, with both pulling their weight, why should the woman be the one to do all the housework AND work?

People like the MIL need to be told things aren't like they were, get with the times, or fuck off. My gran is very traditional, born in the 40's, never worked, stay at home mum. My cousin was applying to unis and gran said to my aunt isn't this all a waste of time, shouldn't she be starting a family? She was told where to shove that opinion.
Doesn't sound like he can afford to be too upset for too long or think it to himself - that sounds petty doesnt it. lol   - 

Seems like this as been their routine for quite a while he probably just buckled under the pressure of being around his mom all day. Adults all too often revert back to the mindset of obey thy parent when around their parents for extended lengths of time. 

 My guess would be is he will 'apologize' after some time.  I would hazard that he will tell his wife it was easier to go long with his mom because he thought his own wife would support him and know he did not 'really' mean it and would just let it go while they were around.
it's kind of hilarious how Mommy's boy is doing what his Mommy wants by telling his wife how she should be a traditional wife
Yeah…I think it was important for the kids to hear it. These people were running her down (baselessly) in her own home. Dad showed he wasn’t capable of defending Mom, so Mom properly defended herself. 

If you don’t want your own daughters accepting being treated like shit in their partnerships and by their in-laws, and you don’t want your sons participating in it, you need to model the behavior.
Who we marry is the most important financial decision in our lives.


When you left him, you went up. He went down.


That's proof you were the go getter in that relationship. It's a shame your ex was so delusional to think he was some captain of industry, with the wisdom of Solomon, Buffet, and Munger.
I know I’m late to the party but your comment resonated with me too much not to chime in. My exhusband listened to his mother about so many things that ultimately had a hand in our marriage deteriorating. I don’t know if he realizes it even now but he has regrets about how great my life has been since the divorce and how his has been hard. 
My oldest son vents about his and his mother’s relationship. I try not to comment much, that’s his dad, but I listen to his frustrations about his grandmother and how his father gets if she’s visiting when the kids are there.
This! Even if all sexism was removed, someone who says things like MIL did needs to be kicked out and never hosted in OP's home again. WTF!
NTA.
"A home is for family and friends, your mother is neither"
And have serious discussions about what it means that the ILs were so cruel to OP in front of the kids. Honestly not sure the kids should be in their presence any time soon.
AGREED, this would be the last straw. No more ILs at the home if they can't respect OP
Their traditional mindset doesn’t realise that modern cost of living means raising a family on a single income is far less doable. Even if OP did want to be a SAHM she’d need to work to keep the family afloat with her husbands job factored in.
Exactly! They wouldn’t be allowed back unless and until they apologized for their archaic behavior.
Agree, the kids shouldn’t be exposed to those views and the disrespect of their mother
Yep. Grew up watching my mum do this. She was silent generation and worked as well as doing everyfuckingthing in the house. As the only daughter I got to take on some jobs as I grew up. I watched mum cook after work, my father eat and not even take his plate back to the kitchen before he would turn from his comfortable chair while we were still washing up and ask if there was a treat to go with his soon to be delivered by us cup of tea.
As you can imagine, things are very different in my family now. Everyone pulls their weight much to my father's horror that l "make" my husband cook, clean, do the washing etc
Exactly this. Every single woman in my mum's family has always worked, as far back in the family tree as I can find, on top of raising kids and managing the household. The 'tradition' isn't that women stay at home (unless you're insanely rich), the tradition is women get taken advantage of.
I wouldn't let their attitudes around my kids. Not ever.
MIL threw down the gauntlet. She shouldn't be allowed back into OP's home unless she admits she was wrong and apologizes for her behavior. Same for hubby.
No way can she leave the husband and in-laws alone at home. Best case scenario they do the same as this visit and indoctrinate the husband to think she’s an awful wife and mother (they’ll probably use terms like gold digger despite h the fact he has no money and she’s paying more than her scare. They’ll also indoctrinate the kids and turn them against her. Worst case scenario they’ll push him to divorce and try to get custody citing abandonment. 

You can’t trust them at all, far less enjoy a relaxing time while they’re plotting to oust her from her own home.
Goodbye, Earl just popped into my head.
Time to get some lovely silk gowns to lounge around in when the cops show up.
Yeah, this is one of those instances where therapy would be the ideal, as it sounds like he is pretty good at pulling his weight without his parents there. Though divorce should be considered if he doesn’t accept therapy/couples counseling or if the sexism continues as it isn’t good for OP or their children. They also need to lessen contact with IL and NEVER leave their children alone with them.
I think most people realize divorce is hard and messy but the people who come here for suggestions are at the end of their rope most of the time. 

Like you shouldn't talk to a teammate or a partner that way, but they decided to fuck around, you just let them find out next.
I agree with you.  I'm not sure either he said it just for his parents benefit. I think he was hoping he could finally get to his wife, three against one, and in front of the kids, too!

Parents, especially parents like these, have a lot of influence on the man's worldview. Growing up while being treated like a king without ever having to do anything to deserve it is something men like these can't give up.

I'd take his opinion from that evening as real. His end goal is probably getting his wife to eventually submit and do what is her "job" to do and have her be dependent on him financially, too.

A man who behaves like this one time is not doing it because his parents "convinced" him.
I’m more surprised she didn’t order a hotel room for the in-laws and her soon-to-be-ex (and I call him STBX because he never would have pulled this little stunt if he didn’t believe his mom and dad down in his heart of hearts).
I can't believe she fed the MIL!  WTF?  I'd have ordered JUST for me in the kids or taken them to McDonalds.

OP is NTA because Husband dogged her IN FRONT OF THE KIDS first.  If husband had just been a cry baby and kept his mouth shut, I'd feel a bit bad for him and give him the benefit of the doubt -- but telling a woman who just worked all day that they need to take better care of their house and children?  Them's divorcing words.  She can afford her own place -- CAN HE? 

Did the in laws get sent home?  PLEASE SAY THEY GOT SENT HOME.
I wouldn't have lol
Honestly, it was time for the inlaws to find different sleeping arrangements after that. Dinner was obviously off the table.
I read "hubby" as "baby" and reread the post before realizing my mistake because I found it odd that a newborn was eating solids and it wasn't addressed. Still made me laugh.
Yeah. I about dropped my phone when she said that they served themselves
Me too
This is honestly the bigger concern here. Hearing your grandmother call your mom a failure of a woman and your father agree can seriously mess with them, much worse than knowing your dad earns less than mom.

Proud of OP to call his statement sexist in front of the kids, this needs to be addressed immediately.
Very true. If they're hearing this crap every time their grandparents are around, that could be an even greater concern.
See this is why I’m ok with the kids hearing what she said. I’d rather have to talk with my kids after this, than let them think husband or his parents were in any way right. They can believe what they want, but they don’t get to tear down OP in front of her kids because of it
Yeah, he was so out of line. A "traditional wife" was not able to leave her husband because she was often not trained so that she could earn enough money and she often had to have a husband cosign loans and such, and the suicide rate for women went way down when they could finally divorce without having to prove infidelity or abuse. Just because it was tradition doesn't mean it wasn't an abusive system. NTA. He needed to be reminded that it's 2024, not 1950. Most households, both parents have to work because wages have been stagnant for decades, and it's only fair that both contribute to the maintenance of the house. 

And if his mom is so concerned about a woman doing her "traditional role," why didn't she make the dinner? That would have been the kind thing to do if visiting and you see the people you're visiting are busy. This isn't about tradition, it's about control, and she wants to have it over her son even though he's a grown man with five children. Gross.
It sucks, but OP's husband and ILs chose the battleground with the mistaken idea that his wife wouldn't say anything in reply, both because the kids were present, and because it was 3 adults all ganging up on one person.  I'm pretty sure sure the kids heard when their grandmother was convincing their father to not cook that evening.

In short, the kids had probably already seen the events leading up to when OP came downstairs, and heard all the disparaging remarks that were made.

The absolute worst thing OP could have done at that point was keep quiet for the kids' sakes (and thus show them that they needed to quietly accept an injustice and suffer in silence).  Instead, she handled things as she should have.  She modeled to her kids exactly how a confrontation should be handled:  out in the open, very aggressively and decisively, calling out the behavior and the opinions by name, with zero tolerance for unfairness, and countered with facts.

It's not her fault that her husband picked a public fight where she responded with a devastating truth to him.  If OP's spouse didn't want the confrontation to be a public family argument, he had plenty of time to go upstairs and talk to his wife in private.  He didn't.  He waited until she got downstairs and forced her into confrontation in front of witnesses.  And as a result, he got humiliated, which is precisely what he deserved for the unfortunate situation he willingly chose to create.  He tried to please his parents by belittling his wife and the mother of his children in front of those children, and he only ended up making himself look very, very small.

My take on this?  OP's husband isn't going to pick fights around the kids or his parents again, because he was the one who looked bad at the end of it.  He knew he was attacking his wife's character, he expected her to defend herself first and foremost, and he didn't expect his wife's pointed response to diminish HIS role as a "traditional" man, and bruise his ego in front of witnesses.  If "family tradition" means that the man supports the family he's made, then OP's husband only proved that he failed his own parents' expectations.  That dose of unexpected humility is going to be with him for a very, very long time...As it should.
He tried to humiliate her, but he can't because she knows her worth.
You're right.
And be sure to clean up after dinner.
Yes! 🙌🏼
MIL couldn't possibly lower herself to a takeaway earned by a *shock* married woman! 
>“As a modern mother, this modern takeout is far too modern for you and hubs. MIL, as a traditional wife please cook a traditional dinner for you and hubs. Thank you~”

🔥🔥🔥
Petty AF and I love it!
EXACTLY!  Since the kids, no matter their ages or sex, are hearing their working mom being put down by their grandparents & dad, they NEED to hear their mom stand up for herself.  I’m glad OP has a backbone;  her husband  doesn’t.
Especially if they have girls!
That’s the thing I can’t get over. Assholery was to be expected coming from the MIL, but for OP’s husband to not only permit it, but AGREE with it… what a betrayal. The kind of betrayal that would make me view everything that had happened in our relationship up to that point through a new lens.
>Unless he secretly agrees with his harpy of a mother.

At one time, perhaps. It ain't a secret now though.
That's the thing, he will not back his wife up probably because of his bruised ego that his wife is the bread winner instead of him. 
He'd rather bring her wife down than face his own insecurities.
Dinner was not ready because your MIL ordered your husband not to cook.  This caused the children to have to wait to eat--all because MIL had to have her way.  Guests are not supposed to actively interfere with their hosts' plans.

You were too kind to buy the other adults dinner.  I would have said to MIL, "Oops! Get out. Right now."
I think you need to talk to the kids about what their grandparents are telling them. I bet they are trying to push their beliefs even when you aren’t around.
OP they were fine starving the children to prove a point but when they had a chance to eat they took it without hesitation. Take from that what you will OP but you definitely NTA
I love that you ordered enough. You “did your duty” and feed your family, so they can’t be mad. AND you did it as an income provider also! Is like a double “kill them with kindness” kick.
Actually I think it was important for the children to hear you say that.  Your husband and MIL’s comments were made in front on the children and they needed to hear the correction.  Without a doubt, they have probably been hearing a lot of similar comments from your ILs while you haven’t been around.
I will say (depending on how old they are)- please sit down with your kids and talk about this with them. Let them ask questions. Explain the division of labour. Explain (in basic terms) how xyz amount of money is required to support a household of xyz people. If they hadn’t been there, I’d say leave them out of it. But now they’re in it, they deserve to be treated like members of the household who get information and are allowed opinions (again depending on how old they are)
Why didn’t his mom cook?
The kids Had to hear what you said to your husband , else they would grow up to be exactly like him. They would think that all the adults - their grandparents and dad were right about how to treat women - if you had also kept quiet to spare the kids.
You are better than me I wouldn't have gotten enough food for everyone only my children and I. Then his mommy can cook for her husband and son LMAO
Might also be time to remind your husband that he's also too broke to pay child support x ~~5~~ **3** so he'd better sharpen up. What a dollar-store toolbox.
Curious, what is your salary contribution compared to his? I would find it even more hilarious if you are the main breadwinner, he had the nerve to say that to you.
What did your in-laws say to that?
I NEED an update on this one from after ILs leave. Also, he was ok saying you were being a bad wife and mother in front of the kids
As I replied to someone else above, Do not have regrets! 

No it doesn't suck that the kids were there. My Dad told me at age 8, I couldn't pump gas because I was a girl. At age 12-13, my Mom walked into the bank with her new credit card and started yelling at them for issuing her credit card as Mrs. JOHN Doe and she told them that she qualified for that card under her name with only HER income and they had better reissue it with HER name. I have never forgotten these events that happened well over 40 years ago.
I wouldn’t spend any “modern woman” money on those assholes. They need their traditional son to buy their dinner.
What about what your husband and MIL said to you in front of the kids?!
i'm proud of you OP ! may i say i did the same to my then bf in same occasion. I told him I was ok for 'traditional' roles, but me being the provider put me in traditionzl guy role, and him depending on my money made him the traditional woman of the situation. He was very chocked, but understood the logic, and it put the things in place once for all. And for the kids : I would have been more concerned they be intoxicated by the IL (AND FATHER !) sexism than having a confirmation in numbers that women count as equal.
He said you weren't doing a good job taking care of the kids in front of the kids. You had every right to defend yourself in front of them too. But you need to really nip this in the bud now, because his and his family's sexist ideals can't be allowed to permeate the family like this. NTA.
OP, you have a big in law problem, but the only way to deal with that and protect your marriage is to deal with your husband problem first. Sit down and have a talk with him. Do not let him get up and leave or make himself too emotional to continue the discussion. 

Ask him if he thinks he is in the right for followninhbhis mummy's orders that resulted in his children not being fed on time. Ask him if making his mummy happy is more important to him than the health, safety, and welfare of the family HE chose to have with you. That will tell you if your marriage is salvageable or if your husband is a lost cause, and thise conclusions will tell you how to deal with your inlaw problem.
You’re a good person, that’s why
I think you did the right thing. You did your "wifely duty" by feeding the family and guests but without breaking your tradition of your husband cooking. You also (rightly) pointed out that your family couldn't replicate his childhood because he doesn't make enough to support everyone. Maybe it would be better if you're children hadn't heard, but I think you can help them through follow up conversations which present your situation in an age appropriate manner. (Not saying that what you said wasn't appropriate, just discussing how you can follow up.)


If I were in your situation I would demand individual/couples counseling. Your husband is trying to unlearn the behaviors he grew up with, but clearly needs help. My husband has been out of work for most of the last 4 years. It's hard on him not being the breadwinner, but he's stepped up by doing more chores and being more present for our child. He would flip out on his parents if they acted this way toward me. You need to develop a plan in which he supports and defends you and your family.
My response also isn't very productive in the sense of keeping the relationship. 



I honestly would've kicked my mil out if she dared to call me a failure with food I paid for and infront of my (hypothetical) kids. 


But my SOs mom is actually great and my bf would never let that happen in the first place.
I’d swap “real” for “traditional”
I get your point but I think this is just as bad for boys to see and possibly emulate
Ironic since under traditional values or "proper" education, guests are to adapt to the hosts' dynamics and never interfere. 

So what is she? Traditional and family or a guest? It's always the double standard with these fundamentalist nutjobs.
Does she expect you helping when you visit her home ?
Sounds like she just doesn't like you.  I think she owes you an apology for disrespecting you in front of your children. What example is that for them,  to hear a wife should be the maid and cook? You should invite your mother over for a conversation with her lol.
If she’s a guest then she should stay the f*ck out of your relationship.
Wow your MIL sounds like the worst of all worlds. So if it were you cooking, I assume she wouldn’t pitch in to help, only for her widdle baby boy? That isn’t the traditional way at all I think
She’s a guest but disrespects you in your own house? Makes you her maid? You have to cook for them all? Your MIL is mentally ill, God gifted her hands and feet. She can do it herself. A guest don’t make me laugh
It can be legit awkward in the midst of confrontation to know if and when you interject. A supportive husband might still say nothing not because they're apathetic but because they are giving their partner space to speak for themselves if desired. Interjecting isn't necessarily bad, of course, but not interfering if you think your partner is standing their ground sounds reasonable.

OP openly inviting husband for input was a 10/10 move. Elucidates which side of the fence he was on and gave him an opportunity to defend her all the while not satisfying a "traditional" role since he didn't assert anything, she literally told him to speak.

His reaction was piss poor and as others have said, it's a betrayal. OP's response was great to that, even if the ideal situation would've been him responding with full fledged support and ILs being told to keep their trap shut.

But yeah, OP did the best they could in that shit situation. Husband's inability to even make eye contact says a lot.
Holy shit. That’s a BAR. 
Nah, "tradition" is code for "we know it's broken but we ain't fixing it".
Tradition for the sake of tradition is dogshit.

If the tradition has lost its meaning but it's fun, cooperative, or otherwise harmless, then fuck it why not do it if you want to.

But anything that tries to constrain or hurt another person has to be justified, it doesn't matter if it's tradition. Embracing tradition because it's tradition is nonsensical, it's rejecting growth and self improvement in the name of committing the same acts - often mistakes - your forebears did.
Yeah, they’d already learned a lesson from their dad.  I think they needed to see what happens to men who pull that crap with a strong woman.
I agree with this. He publicly shamed her, along with the kids grandparents, that she was doing a bad job as a mother. She had to correct that in front of her children, or else they could easily end up with that same mindset. They need to be aware that what Mom does is vital to the family, both her job and what she does around the house. Her standing up for herself in such a bold way will stick with those kids. 

Hopefully OP sets some serious boundaries with husband about what will be tolerated in regards to his family. Couples counseling will be needed for sure for him to finally cut the umbilical cord from MIL. but she needs to put a stop to this before he starts pushing his parents ideals any further. He needs to stand up to his parents, it can't be on her.
He was hurt by what she said- but had no issue with his mother insulting his wife and also doubled down and repeated it.
This conversation didn't come out of nowhere either.  The kids were probably around when MIL was talking crap about OP and putting husband up to this.
She didn’t actually call him a bad husband or father. She pointed out he didn’t have the money to “put his money where his mouth was”. Since she doesn’t automatically think that the man should be the provider, she doesn’t equate good provider with good husband or good father. The system they had worked, making him a good husband and father. It is HIS (and his parents) bullshit, outdated views that turned what she said into her slamming his masculinity. 

Boyo FAFO in an ugly way. What she said was not as bad/insulting as what he said. Him growing a spine or at minimum the kids going no contact with his parents needs to be a non-negotiable agreement to staying together. 

OP please up date us!
You are exactly right
Fully agree. If MIL and hubby are dishing out sexist bullshit in front of the kids, then they can hear about the financial reality as well.
Yeah, the kids need to see how badass their mom is…
Thanks, I pick and chose my battles but when I go into battle it's with guns blazing. My poor husband looked like a deer caught in the headlights when I initiated the lively discussion.
also that "Dutiful DIL" thing that she said she's done in the past should be off the table. No bowing to their traditions in their home if she can't be respected in hers.
As in he just sides with the people who think has the most control or power, so really really spineless and wishy-washy
Was looking for this comment but also like...were they all (kids especially) gonna starve till mum got home and fixed a 6 course dinner for 9pax??

I would've loaded the kids up in the car with some essentials and driven straight to my parents. He can be a traditional man and grovel at my father's feet for forgiveness for the sheer betrayal, spineless cowardice and disrespect or wait to hear from a lawyer about no contact, child neglect and divorce proceedings.
Screenshotting this and putting it in a folder titled “reverse harem visual novel ideas” 
Lmao, sharing? Straight men? Surely not lmao!
His answer to everything, including that is always, “I was in the Marines for over 10 years and Jesus knows my true worth.” Which is guess translates into “Cause I said so and my parents gave me a ridiculously inflated idea of my own Holy Firstborn Son status in the world.”

Not to be a petty brat about it, but I would love to know Jesus’s opinion on him no longer being in the Marines because he was given a choice to retire or be tried for adultery 🤓
The main problem is definitely that they as a couple agreed upon how to split domestic and financial responsibilities in their house and the husband let his mother come in and steamroll him. She’s just pointing out that under the trad household he claims to want he would be required to be a financial provider. She called out that he is unable to fill this role. 


NTA.
Especially with 3 kids!
Also hilarious how husband will pick and choose his toxic masculinity... he started crying when OP gave him the truth. 

That's not very Traditional Man of you, bruv.
Humans are natural control freaks. Women in traditional families only ever achieve power by being mothers or volunteers; they exert control over their children and children in law by extension. You see a same level of viciousness in church groups, charities, and HOAs. 

I’d imagine being constantly belittled and talked down to makes the bad ones find someone smaller than them to pick on and the good ones break the cycle. OP’s mom is punching down; OP is punching sideways.
And what else was his mum saying before OP got home?! She must have worked up a full head of steam about how terrible OP was for working (possibly in front of the kids too) to cause her son not to cook dinner. Yuck.
Oh they don’t want her to stop working they want her to do all the cooking, cleaning and child rearing on top of working. They were waiting for her to come home and cook!
Exactly. My partner makes significantly more than OPs husband and we still have trouble making ends meet while also buying things we want.
Then she'd have to pay for it.. this is just too sad for her and the kids
The hotel room should be for herself until the in laws leave.
So many aita and relationship advice posts come down to OPs just never, ever standing up for themselves and then thinking they're an asshole when they finally do.  It's become so boring.
Yeah, as much as I support the “united front”, this isn’t a discussion on how kiddo can’t be fed a cookie right before bed, this is showing them that sexism will not be tolerated and that the way they treated OP is unacceptable.
Agreed! I'm glad OP fought back against those sexist insults so that her kids that that shit is NOT okay to say. She's a good role model for her kids unlike their sexist dad.
Maybe I misread, but I thought OP said a family of five, which would be her, hubs, and three kids, not five kids. Otherwise I agree 100%.
My mom was born in 1938.  She was allowed to go to college, and when she did, she was told her career options were nurse, teacher, or librarian.  She chose librarian.  

Her parents both worked; my grandfather was a commercial artist (drawings for catalogs and magazines), and my grandmother was an English teacher.  My grandmother had to hide her marital status, as teaching was reserved *only* for spinsters and men who were head of household.
And equally important, she knows *his* worth. Per OP’s other comments, OP is the primary breadwinner, while husband makes relatively little money (and also lost their savings, due to some bad decisions on his part). Without him doing an equitable share of the cooking, cleaning, and childcare, he’s basically just dead weight.
If she really knew her worth she wouldn't stay with a sexist man who can't stand up for her against his even more sexist parents
I mean, especially if they have boys!
Me too. Like do I even know this guy? 
If a traditional woman is supposed to cook, why didn't the mil cook dinner for her family?
This. And frankly, I would have gathered the kids, and gone out to dinner, and left hubby with his Mommy and Daddy to fend for themselves.
No.  Husband chose not to cook.  Husband chose to agree with his parents.  That is the bigger problem.  Husband thinks like his parents, he's just too chickenshit to say so openly.  Too much of a useless mooch.
Also husband got bossed around by another woman so yay score another patriarchy point for the in laws???
Also, she's a shitty guest. Could she not, as the "family matriarch," provide a meal for everyone? Isn't that her duty too?
THIS. My parents did not raise me and my siblings religiously (outside of our families wishes) and whenever my parents weren't around our extended family would try to guilt us children into believing in God.
This!

OP please be cautious of what things the in laws are telling your kids.
Better idea: kick the ILs out. They don't get to disrespect OP like that in OP's house.
I'm sure it's co-incidence that my upvote is the 666th about these manipulative grandparents & their evil customs, right? 

I hadn't thought of this, but I completely agree - OP should make sure her 4 kids know that their grandparents' views are obsolete, irrelevant and hurtful. 

Just imagine if one of them is queer?
NTA - sucks that the kids had to hear ALL of that but do not feel guilty over this. When he joined his mother in her BS, he brought it upon himself. He needed that reality check and sounds like it stung him hard. Next time the  in-laws show up, just take the kids & leave. Let him deal with his parent’s stupidity. Just because they are FAMILEEEEYYY, does not mean that you have to put up with their crap. Sending you hugs & positivity!

!updateme
I don't get how the "traditional" / conservative grandparents didn't provide a feast. Do they not love their children and grandchildren?
No doubt OP also paid for the takeaway from her income too, so husband wasn't even doing his duty of providing for his family.
Guess what? In the minds of the in-laws, nothing will ever be good enough.
"Sometimes people chose to listen to the wrong people. You know sometimes you want to do bad things because others do bad things. Dad had a day like that and listen to someone who wanted him to behave badly." 

That's what I would be very tempted to say to the kids.
you've got to explain the kids. Dont know their age, but sooner or later they'll be crossing the red-pill ideology, which will remind them this stormy discussion. Better to explain them now that women and men are equal and history of the domination of women. I dont know where you live, but here in France there is a lot of books for all ages about that
You can bet the kids got their ears full before OP got home. All that time that would have been spent cooking and cleaning up was spent listening to grandma run down their "failure" of a wife and mother, and plans to ambush her. It's good OP knows how to speak up for herself, because the idea was to shame and steamroll OP into submission.
Every kid can understand with proper explanation. Last year my husband was traveling a lot for his job and i did all the childcare. Unfortunately he was laid off in december. I took a job in January and since then I've been working and he does the childcare. We explained our kids of the why's in age appropriate ways.

Guess what, they are fine with it. And my kids range from 6 to 14 years old. They are still people and are allowed an explanation.

I'm just incredible lucky that my husband doesn't care about gender roles even though he feels responsible for not getting that much income in. He would never let our kids know. Chores are divided equally between us depending on hours or work
Oh I'm sure it's because it "isn't her place to interfere"
That's what I'm thinking. She should have been trying to help out her host. Very poor manners for a tradwife.
I would imagine it was to put the DIL in her place.  Which is lower than husband's mother.  The fucking audacity though,  she comes home from working a full day, to a husband and ILs who've been, what, sitting on their arses all day waiting for OP to come home and skivvy for them, just because she's a girl?  Wonder if MIL knew her son wasn't pulling his "proper husband" weight not being able to provide for his family?
Exactly, if grandma is trying to shame OP by saying it's a woman's role to cook, why didn't she do it?
Legit an episode of King of the Hill where the parents put dad's dad in his place after teaching the child about "women's work."
Yep. My mental conversation went along the lines of:

“Well, *I* am not FIL’s wife and I already have 3 children, so I’m not interested in being **his** (husband’s) mother. I guess you’d better cook something for them. My kid’s and I are going out to eat. — Kid’s, get your shoes on, please! Help your brother. — I’d like you packed by the time we return. Husband, I’ll let *you* decide whether you are packing, too. Bye. — Let’s go, guys. Where do ya wanna eat?”

No yelling. Conversational; even-toned; maybe even a half-smile that doesn’t quite reach the eyes. Nothing to alarm the kids unless they want to start it as you walk out the door.

OP is NTA, but her husband and his parents sure are. (His *may* be a temporary and correctable condition brought on by his recent increased exposure to the irreversibly toxic assholishness of his parent’s. They need to go. Now. And future exposure should be limited and protected by distance.)
Dollar store tool box - love this line .
Child support x3. They are a family of 5 so they have 3 children.
I'm replacing my standard "waste of a scrotal sac" with "dollar store tool box".
I am the main bread winner. He hasn't always earnt so little. He made some bad decisions  - nothing illegal or immoral, just stupid - which cost him his job and savings. This is what pissed me off more - that I'm working hard to cover the shortfall while he works on getting back on his feet and he has the nerve to say that to me.
Crickets, I would be willing to bet! 🦗
Probably something about how disrespectful she is to the man of the house. 🙄😒
Going hardline and making it 110% clear you will destroy the relationship if they want to continue being insufferable is fine.

I hate slow escalations if we all know where something is headed. Your response is productive in keeping the relationship because it's a straight dose of reality in telling the husband exactly where things are headed if he continues being a coward and hypocrite. It doesn't let grievances and irritation simmer until it bursts, it's taking the pan off the heat straight away. 

Give him the wake up call, let the ILs piss off, and then have a more grounded discussion where you lay out just how badly he fucked up in great detail so he knows exactly what the problems are.
Since hubby still has “traditional” values ingrained in him, I figured the wording would hit him harder and maybe would actually click for him just what it is he’s implying. I don’t believe in the concept of “real” men, but he (and his parents) clearly do.
Oh I agree that it's still bad for boys but I think it's worse for girls because it affects their self image and self esteem more directly and can also hold them back materially.  I say this as someone that has suffered from "tradition" messages.
Yep.

Teaching everyone how a man and woman should be treated should be the norm. It's not just for women to know what they shouldn't tolerate; it's for men to know what they shouldn't do and, just as well, how they can support a loved one who is being mistreated.
Right! I don’t think calling one of the hosts a failure because they don’t bend over backwards to your ideologies falls under “traditional values”.
Of course! In which case OP needs to pull the "I'm a guest so therefore not required to help" card.
I agree. It’s very easy to stay silent and let the moment pass even if you 100% support your spouse. Parental pressure can be hard even if that doesn’t make it okay. But the husband here specifically chose to agree with his mother and talk down to his wife.
Not quite. It's actually "we know it's broken, but it's broken in a way that benefits us or reflects our beliefs, and we don't want to lose that privilege."
Imagine what a terrible husband this man would be if he had convinced her to give up her independence that much? His mommy would own that house
Agree. She needs to stop enabling that bullshit.
I think this story has already been told with Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs. It takes a lot of hours in the Diamond Mines to support a princess.
Anything like my ex-BIL’s mother. She told my sister’s children that their mother was a b****. Ex-BIL pretended that he never heard the comment.

Some mothers don’t like the fact that their son has another woman in his life. OP’s MIL is one of them
OP hit the nail on the head, they couldn’t afford to follow tradition. Her husband’s “tradition is tradition for a reason“ argument doesn‘t hold water and OP needs to set firmer boundaries regarding the in-laws as they’re reconditioning her husband as well as teaching the kids a negative example. Even OP’s MIL can’t be blind to how things cost more than they used to.
It doesn’t have to be sad.  It’s an absolutely excellent teaching example for her kids.  As would be the subsequent divorce.  And kicking misogynists out of a house certainly doesn’t mean you send them with your credit card?  That should cost her nothing, including her dignity.
Nope, the hotel room would be for the in-laws and husband. She did nothing to have to leave her home and potentially her kids.
My thought was that as as soon as they said that she should have agreed with them gone upstairs, grabbed all their shit and threw it down the yard there you go I’ve cleaned my house.
Then she comes home to a very messy house.dirty dishes. Etc..unless husband thought twice and cleaned up..he's in.for another earful. Would be a cold day in hell before I  them  stay with us again they can get a hotel visit during the day ..night back to hotel. Those ARE THE RULES..no changing them
No, never be the one to leave your own home. In-laws and the husband started the fight. They can go in that order.  MIL would not be welcome back.
Hell no! Turf out the in laws.
They have overstayed their welcome by a large margin 
Nope, I would have made a hotel reservation and told them to leave my home that I pay for and they are no longer welcome. I booked a room with two beds so Sonny boy  can go with them. Please pack, leave and don’t force me to throw your stuff out, because I will. You have 30 min, until you can learn to be respectful you will not be allowed to stay here again. The kids and I will finish our dinner, maybe you can take your parents to eat when you drop them off , oh wait you can’t because you’re a  broke ass.  Don’t write checks with your mouth that you can’t cash.
Nope, they would not be staying in my home. Get the fuck out now or I'm calling the cops to have you removed.
Fuck that it’s her home. Those motherfuckers wouldn’t spend another single night in my house _ever_ . The husband needs to issue a groveling apology immediately or leave with them. WTF did he think he was doing? Who just shits on their hard working wife’s head like this? OP this is worth going nuclear over - he grovels and his parents are never allowed in your house again or fuck him - he moves out and ponders his life choices alone for a while. 
Couldn’t agree more
Of course this example is VERY important for every child; but as a mom of girls with in-laws who also act like this.. I refuse to ever let my daughters feel like 2nd class citizens in their own house. I'm definitely the thorn in my IL's side because I don't let them get away with this shit lol.
That's what I was thinking!  My MIL is pretty traditional too, she would have had dinner on the table for me and moaned about how unfair it was that modern women have to work so hard.  No way would she have demanded I cook after working all day.  That was never the deal.

OP - how could you think you were ever in the wrong here?  All three of them ganged up on you and treated you appallingly.  I'd strongly consider getting some space for a while.  They don't appreciate you.
This isn't even a dunk, it is a legitimate question. In cultures where women are traditionally the homemakers, they help each other even when they are guests because there is less of a distance between family and extended family.
"bECAUse I'M a GuESt!!!"

-- MIL, no doubt
Also, she's a guest, and making a meal would be a nice thank you for the hosts. 


She sucks.
safe mountainous consider unwritten weather foolish shelter modern attempt correct

 *This post was mass deleted and anonymized with [Redact](https://redact.dev)*
I would've gone out to dinner with kids, then MY parents' house with said kids until they were gone.
No, there’s no place for the inlaws in this house when they’re trying to undermine their household ways. They can go get fucked.
Totally. OP is way nicer than me. I was raised like OP, so hearing about this boils my blood. I don't want to be one of those "tell him to pack his shit" people, so I left that out of my post to OP. But husband’s attitude would be a deal-breaker to me. 

I'd tell the MIL since it's the woman's job to cook, she needs to get her ass in the kitchen and make dinner for her hubby and baby boy, because me and my kids are going out tonight on my breadwinner's paycheck. Husband is such a fucking disappointment.
Exactly this, I would’ve done the same but OP is too kind.
This is the best solution.  Who wants to spend time with the in-laws deciding the family should bend to their will and a spineless husband who can't defend his family?
agreed, a man myself, this guy doesnt deserve such a good wife.  in this modern world there is no his job or her job.  the family unit has to do what needs to be done collectively.

to the OP, keep working and live your best life
\^THIS! And: 

>"I told him tradition won't allow a man on 35k to support a family of 5 and he was too broke to be so sexist. He looked hurt and I saw tears welling in his eyes."

Truth hurts, doesn't it? Maybe this man shouldn't screw with a good thing. And maybe grow a spine and stand up to the mother. NTA!!!
yep. I think you're right. I'd bet he feels 'emasculated' to earn less money, and his mother is pushing this narrative. Quite a big red flag
Yep, exactly this.

He's either totally spineless or he believes like his parents. Possibly (probably?) both.

If a family member tried to tell me what my SO had to do as part of her "duties", I'd tell them where to shove it
It’s not that. It’s that the husband has no mind of his own. When he’s with his wife he agrees with her. When he’s with his parents he agrees with them. When the two come together he’s stuck in the middle because he has no backbone to form his own opinion. That’s why I love my husband, he isn’t afraid to argue with people about his beliefs and his beliefs align a lot with mine.

He doesn’t really know who he is. That’s OP’s husband’s issue. 
Can't believe I didn't catch on to that one: Allow one woman to tell you to be an ass to another woman. That one should have been on my Irony-bingo card
The house they wouldn't have if she wasn't bringing home an income.
Exactly! How very dare they be so disrespectful! NTA
Yeah, the one thing my wife and I were *adamant* about to everyone (inlaws, great inlaws, brothers, sisters, et. al.) is that we are a united front that comes before any of them.

Disrespect either of us, or try to undermine how we choose to raise our children, and they will be walked to the door.

They caught on pretty quickly or learned the hard way. 

I once had to kick my sister out in the middle of the night when she was crashing with us because she was drunk and yelling at my wife because she was asked to keep the volume down. 

We both drove my wife's mother to a homeless shelter because she was living with us forever and couldn't hold down a job then we caught her using drugs. 

Pretty much the entirety of my 20+ years marriage our home has been a safe space for numerous family members (from either side of the aisle) who needed help, and the ones that appreciated it, and respected us, had a chance to get back on their feet again.

The ones that didn't are the pure definition of FAFO and are still struggling.
Kick the husband out too to be with those AH inlaws until they go back home. Then a reckoning will occur with OP and husband. He betrayed their fair arrangements and betrayed her.
The kids also got to hear the husband and mil degrade op as a human and a woman.  It’s not the worst thing that her kids saw her standing up for herself.
Honestly I don't think it sucks, I guess kinda depending on the age of the kids. It's showing them to stand up for themselves and to not fall into those gender traps. She's setting a good example.
I agree with all these except as the DIL my husband's family would be banned from my house. No interactions, kids not allowed overnights. You want to spew that kind of nonsense you do it in your own damn home.
Update ALL of us!
I think the kids NEEDED to hear this so that they don’t adopt the same antiquated ideals that their paternal family is pushing. Even the husband has now inferred that her only value as a mother and life partner lies with cooking and cleaning. The gall of a man earning $35,000 annually to dare to demand his wife be a full time wife and mother while also contributing financially. 

I definitely would have only ordered food for myself and kids. And there would have been a very serious conversation afterwards about parents’ unwelcome interference in an household that has been working well for your family. Husband has no spine and he needs to consider exactly what value he is adding, before he becomes an ex husband and part time parent. 

And I would contemplate the conditions and boundaries that would be implemented if these “traditional “ people are ever permitted in your home again.
There shouldn't be a "next time".  They would *never* be allowed to stay at my house again.
I kinda think it's pretty awesome she said this in front of the kids.  As a kid of a mom who didn't wait for dad to come home to do home improvement projects, i admire this.  She called him and his stupid MIL out and maybe Dad will do better next time. Also, an example of what a decent income is for a family (or isn't).  Mad respect for OP.
Yeah-- good point. The kids already heard all that sexist shit from their dad and grandparents-- you pushing back in the moment was fine imo. You hit him in a fot spot, but one relevant to the "traditional" discussion and I think that's okay. What's good for the traditional goose is good for the traditional gander.
This. He made an active choice not to support and defend his wife from this BS, not to protect his children from hearing it, not to tell his parents that their outdated attitudes were not welcome in his family's house, not to cook dinner. All his poor choices and frankly I think the OP was pretty restrained - after all of you believe in a traditional set up then you need to be prepared to be a traditional provider.
NTA.
But she is a woman! She had to serve her family too!!!!! /s
My assumption: she was actually unhappy in her traditional role so she prioritized trying to push for her DIL suffer the same because it was more bearable than admitting she herself could have taken better decisions on how to live her life.
He keeps this attitude up the only thing you should be serving him is divorce papers. 

He can go stay at a hotel with his parents.
So what did he have to say for himself after you talked to him?
Should have literally called him out on it. YOU are busting your ass to provide for family and catchup the finances due to his poor decisions.

Least he can do is pitch in to help HIS own goddamn kids and family. In laws should been shown the door, not a meal
Dude. What is he doing? Seriously though, like no absolutely not. I can't even formulate words I'm so mad for you right now. 


Sounds like he makes a bad habit of putting his foot where his mouth should be, and consistently FAFO. The man has got some issues. He loses his job because he screws up royally by making bad decisions. Then turns around and makes worse decisions to the one person who's holding it all together for him. 


Oh hell no.
It's almost always the men who could never afford to support a family who push the tradwife agenda the most lol.
You were much nicer than he deserved...
Being broke and earning less than you is the source of his insecurities, it's common in men. They're afraid and sort of ashamed of not being the bread winner, even more if he comes from a 'traditional' family. This, added, to the bs that MIL had said leads to him trying to 'reassure' his identity as the man of the house by pushing you to the chores. It's nuts, but he has to work on his irrational thoughts and gain more self esteem. It's not on you, it's on he. NTA.
He can go live with his mother if he truly thinks that's the better life.
The Man-dacity! 

He did something stupid to jeopardize the financial status of the family. You are temporarily carrying the load for an indeterminate amount of time and he has the mama's boy audacity 😒 .
INFO:  Do his parents understand that you are the breadwinner?  When his mother was calling you a failure for working, I would have asked her straight up if at any point her husband was unable to be the breadwinner and what they did about it.  Tradition requires he be able to support you.

NTA.  You did nothing wrong.  If he didn’t like it, he should have 1) not f’ed up so that you are the breadwinner and 2) gotten enough of a spine to stand up to his parents like a man.
Statistically women who earn more do more chores than women who earn less… their husbands push them to do it out of insecurity. Do not become that statistic. 
Yeah with this new info his statements come off even worse.  He’s lucky you didn’t rip him and his parents a new one while going down the list of every reason why he’s got no place talking to you about being a “proper woman” right there and then at the table.
wow. classic behavior of someone who is toxic. they can't face their own mistakes so they have to tear someone else down.  I bet his parents  put the blame on you for his bad decisions. like if you werent working your husband wouldn't have made those bad decisions. I bet if you were a stay home mom his parents would have found fault in you anyway. your husband would still make bad decisions and you would get blamed for them.

you took the high road by ordering everyone diner. shows your character is not vindictive. Your husband did not stand up for you but because you have dignity  you stood  up for yourself and told the truth. even if it felt wrong and mean. you showed  your children how to act with dignity which doesn't always come across in a tidy bow.  you did not feed into the lie that everything is okay in front of your children.

NYA by a long shot.
...was it Bitcoin?
The cheek! Happy for you to make up the shortfall because of his stupid decisions. How are you supposed to do that tied to the kitchen sink?!? I’d be telling him to get a bag packed because when the in-laws go, he’s going with them.
Do his parents know his financial status? Because if not, that adds another hilarious layer to this whole interaction.
I wouldn’t let this go, OP. I couldn’t be with someone who treated me like this.
Knowing this now, why the heck you order food for them too? I would’ve taken the kiddos out to eat and told them to figure out what they’d eat then.
He's obviously feeling shame at being in that situation; which has left him more vulnerable to his parents manipulation, to divert his feelings about his financial position onto you. That's not OK, but he needs to get his parents out of your house and work on his own feelings of inadequacy and what impact they are having on his family (and also keep contributing equitably while you are picking up the slack). Hopefully he can pull himself out of this, and it isn't a marriage ending situation - I couldn't be with someone who genuinely felt that way, but I would hope that isn't the actual case here, and his time of weakness was preyed upon by his family (but it's his responsibility to deal with them and his issues).
This makes his comments so much worse.
Divorce papers do wonders to a woman like you!
oh you are SOOOooooo NTA. Hubby better do some fine backpedalling.
That actually explains a lot. It's common for people to lash out after a downturn like that. He's probably feeling bad about himself and seeking a way to restore his sense of self-worth and self-esteem. This makes him vulnerable to toxic ideologies, especially if they are being pushed by his own mother. 

But none of that is an excuse. His behavior is unacceptable even if it is understandable. 

If your marriage is otherwise strong you can give him some time to sort himself out. Some time to fight with his inner demons and hopefully win. But don't give him more than a few months, and only if he shows signs that he's willing to work on himself, and not just proudly walking deeper into the swamp.
and to THEM.
Yeh but it’s not the wording you want to use infront of the kids
At their expense. OP and husband can't afford to pay for a hotel room for them.
I think it should be which would she PREFER.  I get the "I don't have to leave my own house" -- but also a nice hotel is kinda... well, nice sometimes.  So boss lady gets to pick who has the hotel room!

Honestly though, if this had happened to me, I'd have told my extremely Catholic mother it law the get the FUCK out of MY HOUSE immediately.   In those exact words.  With a time limit and stop eating MY FOOD.  I'd have been seeing too much red to think about fancy hotels.  And I'd tell husband he can go too if he wants - cause all he's getting here is a couch.
She order the room and THEY pay.
Hilarious!!
I like your kind of petty...
Oh, he’ll be doing the cleaning as a requirement of us staying married.  I would expect it to be a mess what with the kids staying to visit with their grandparents because I would never be allowing the grandparents to be in the same room as me ever again.
Oh I do get that and agree, and understand that's what you were meaning, so please don't take my reply as an argument starter or something like that lol. I just meant that we also have to raise boys who wouldn't think to treat women as 2nd class citizens :)

Like how women superheroes or main characters are lauded as representation *for* girls to look up to, that is of course all true valid and necessary, but boys also need women to look up to. Representation matters, but it doesn't just matter for the people being represented- it's also beneficial for people to see people not like them being represented, and being presented as a figure for them also to look up to vs. "oh that movie/book is only for *xyz"*
Exactly. My MIL would make us a feast and tell me the economy sucks and she hates that I have to work lol.
OP"MIL dear, I'm gonna take out the trash now because it smells bad"...MIL "It's about time you did your womanly work"...OP"I meant you, now get out"...
Yeah MIL is a stand by your man, even when he's sticking it in others kind of gal.
I would of kicked in laws out of my house and told them to take there son with them! What complete AH'S! Hubby deserved what he got!
But she might need to do so away from him.  Now that he has shown his true colors, she can't share a home with someone who believes what he believes.  And she can't just let him poison their kids with his garbage either.
It doesn't matter who is pushing it. It doesn't matter who started it.  He's saying it, he's accountable for what he says.
Excellent. Provided for those in need who pulled their weight and set boundaries with those who would not.
No, I also find it a good thing. It sucks that they got to hear all the bullshit from the ILs, but they get the vibe anyway.
MIL is also wrong - traditionally women ALWAYS worked. They had different jobs to men of that time period but they worked outside the house. Poorer people had their kids working as well. It was only from the 20th century (or if you were very rich) that women didn't work en masse. So, whichever way you look at it, she's wrong.
Yeah, the whole “united front in front of children” is good in general, but there are some instances where it can be harmful. Most arguments and such should not happen in front of them, but if they are already present when their mother is getting degraded and shamed for not being “traditional” and “womanly”, they should absolutely be present for her defending herself. Regardless of gender it teaches them that it is wrong for others to treat women that way….obviously there are other instances where it wouldn’t be a bad thing if children overheard an argument.
On general kids shouldn’t be present for arguments, but this is one of those exceptions where they NEED to hear their mother defending herself against sexism. Imagine that she wait until after they go to bed, so they only end up hearing their mom be shamed and degraded and they subconsciously start thinking that that is an acceptable way to treat women and that women are man’s servant. Yeah NTA
Going totally off vibes (so take this with a grain of salt) but I’d bet money his parents don’t know about it, and he’s been keeping his fuckup from them.
Least he could do is stand up to mommy and tell her how things work in his and OP's household.
They don't want real traditional wives. They want wives who do all the housework, childcare and bring in money while they get to laze around unemployed. 


It's a fantasy that has never existed, except for incredibly wealthy people. 
Agreed.

My ex’s justification for cheating was that I had a great career and paid for everything. Rather than enjoy that as a team or work harder himself (I didn’t expect or need that), he decided to prove he was smarter than me in another way.

OP needs to be very wary of a man whose ego is so bruised by her being so competent. Especially given the inlaws’ beliefs and the fact they’ll be in his ear all the time. 

Absolutely not TAH but you need family counselling to see if you can work through this and ensure your husband understand the hurt and learns to respect you and work as a team. He may also even learn some skills to manage his family. Frankly if he can’t I don’t think either of you will be happy.
If he is broke now, after the divorce and child support, he will be broker i suppose🤣
She can probably pay for a hotel room. Doubtful the husband can. I personally, would be hard pressed to want him to join me.As for the ILs. I'm one of those who quit speaking ( like forever, or at least a really long time, enough to MORE than make my point). That tactic isn't for everyone, I realize. But that is most likely what I would do /advise something similar. Doesn't sound like they are going to change anytime, so explain the situation to the kids( if old enough to comprehend), and still let them interact( that's their grandparents😑). Your husband may be salvageable, if you wish. But, truly, Id stop all communication with the ILs. They have no respect for you, your home, your family methods & are insurrectionists. Totally NTA!
A room at the cheapest no-tell motel, because that's all their worth
I would never allow those grandparents to ever be in the same room as my CHILDREN ever again.  My kids would be learning SO MUCH from this visit, mainly about exactly how we treat hateful people who don’t believe in equality, and exactly what views do and don’t get espoused under MY roof.
I don’t even think it has to necessarily be some horrible thing that the kids know the family can’t get by on dad’s salary alone.

**Not being able to support a family of five on a single income is nothing to be ashamed of.** I hope OP explains that to the children (and her husband, for that matter).

Frankly, the real problem here seems to be that the husband is a bit of a pushover, which is particularly problematic when he’s around his bulldozer of a mother.

Husband needs therapy. MIL needs to back the fuck off if she wants to continue being welcomed into their home.
True facts. My grandmother was the main provider because my grandfather a) worked in a foundry where work was sporadic and b) drank his paychecks. Grandma hid enough money to make a down payment on a house; up until then they were living upstairs from my great grandmother. Grandma worked multiple jobs (laundress, cook, housekeeper) and all four kids helped out until they got married or joined the military and left the house. Other grandma also worked (other grandfather also was a foundry man and died young). And that was just about a hundred years ago,  so OP's in-laws and husband can stuff their fantasies about tradwives and Real Proper Families.
Absolutely.  My grandmother white working class english was lucky not to go into the cotton mills . She was lucky enough to learn to make hats & worked all her life as a milliner. This would be around the 1920's when women wore hats everywhere! All the women in her family worked fulltime.
And even the wives in the 50s did constant labor about the house, while the husband stopped doing anything until his paid job was done.  (Except manly things like fixing things and mowing the lawn)
women in traditionnal agrocultural societies worked like mens
One great grandmother was a housekeeper. One great grandmother was a politician of all things and also worked on the farm.. Two great grandmothers were farm wives and worked like crazy. My one great grandmother, Olga, by the time she was on her 10th child, would stop working in the fields, long enough to deliver baby placenta, nurse baby, and then go back to work. Her life got better when her oldest son went to work for the railroad and had money to buy her a sewing machine. Then she could work as a seamstress and not as hard on the farm.
This here.  My great grandmother ran the small farm while my great grandfather worked.

I'm not sure people understand how backbreaking that is.

Also, most "traditional" households also had the wife do the finances.  All the finances.  If he's lost savings, like said in a comment, he definitely isn't treating this as a "traditional" thing. 

It's definitely sexism.
The majority of people lived below the poverty line. Entire families worked in horrific conditions.
So glad people are calling out this BS. It’s based on firstly, the idea that work isn’t work unless it’s outside the home and paid by a third party and secondly, an extremely limited time period (eg post Second World War) for an extremely limited group of people (middle class white nuclear families by and large). The need to work has always been primarily determined by class and similarly, income - poor people always worked and wealthy upper class people rarely did (unless you consider managing household staff or property work).
Yep, this ⬆️ 

And if you go back a little further to before factories became common, a large proportion of people (men and women) worked from their home, and shared the responsibilities of both. Think: farmers, people living above/behind their bakery/butchery/pub/blacksmithery/whatever.

There’s a modern perception that the man would have run the shop while the woman ran the house, but historical records paint a much more nuanced picture.
Maybe she means whYte women,Black women built this country on their labor. Forced slavery in the fields and raising kids, then raising white kids.
This is what I'm suspecting, too.
If that's the case he could have kept it a secret by not being a sexist coward
I bet he’s been telling them he’s the breadwinner, not OP.
And if they were incredibly wealthy people …they had nannies and servants. This is a model that really has never existed historically.
Considering the MiL is saying all this stuff in front of kids... Yeah, she'd never see my kids, but she can have hers back.
THIS
Honestly ironic that he’s so beholden to his mother’s opinions given that she’s supposed to be a “proper woman.”

Heck, if I were OP I’d tell her that: a “proper woman” shouldn’t go around telling men how to run their families.
I was born in the 70s in a mill town. No one I knew had a stay at home parent. Hell most of them worked different shifts because kids. The fact that op has a cleaning lady is foreign to me. 

With that said, ops husband sounds like a cool guy except for his parents. I can't imagine a man willing to clean and cook being raised by people like that. His childhood might have really sucked. I was in my 50s before I kicked my abusive parents to the curb
My great grandmother had a similar husband but he also blew into town just long enough to get her pregnant again before taking off for parts unknown (she had 18 children). She put herself through nursing school, purchased a house on her own and raised all of her children. Many of the women in their poor neighborhood were in the same boat. They all worked and raised their families alone. OP’s in laws can get bent. NTA
Both my grandmothers worked.  One had to bc of the same situation with my grandfather and the other grandmother was career driven.  She was the school principal.
People forget that pre-washing machine and other similar household labor saving devices, that household chores was hard labor that took time. Housewives weren’t sitting on their asses reading a book.
Absolutely. My grandmother ran the family dairy  farm after her husband died . .
My grandparents were market gardeners- Nonno got up before light to drive the produce to the market and Nonna held down the fort at home.
Yeah, there's never been a time when Black women didn't work in this country.  Even for white women, it's only for a specific class of white women for a relatively short amount of time, and it was miserable enough that they fought hard for the freedom that came with not being dependent on a husband.

What traditionalists want is literally patterned off a version of life that only occurred on sitcoms created after the fact.
Me three. He's posturing as Man Of The House with them. I doubt he mentioned that OP is the main earner.
The classic "do as I say, not as I do" of trad/Christian hypocrites 
What they said was that HE doesn't make enough alone to support their family comfortably, not that THEY collectively don't have the income to enjoy some luxuries like having a cleaner in.  I haven't seen that she addresses her income, but maybe she's the primary earner?
You assume they are working poors.  OP could be highly paid, she doesn’t mention her salary or her occupation.  Husband earns $35k.  Fact is, not enough to support himself these days, let alone a family.  OPs husband is too broke to be sexist.  That’s a fact.  OP is defo NTA.
My great-grandmothers worked taking in laundry and ironing or as housekeepers, my grandmother did the same and the other one worked in the cafeteria at Ford and then janitorial work in the evenings, my mother was mostly a SAHM but did some part-time work in a bookstore and at a hotel or babysitting. 

Yes, women have worked for centuries
Holy fuck that's a lot of kids!
You mean the “let me run a small business as an influencer advising other women to stay home and not work” routine?
What they make wasn't really relevant. If HE wants her to be at home cooking and taking care of the house instead of working 40 hours a week then HIS salary needs to support that lifestyle. Instead he decided she should take on half the bills and all the "wifely duties". That's bullshit.
True. I was thinking more he's not one of those " traditional gender role" jerks who insists his little wife do it all because God or some other crap. I worded it badly.
Yes it is. My mom has 37 first cousins. We don’t really do family reunions. There’s never a big enough space for all of us. 🤣
AITA I told my MIL that’s all on her?
My 5 year old son’s birthday is coming up and he wants a chocolate cake with chocolate icing. It’s his birthday so I said yes. 

My MIL can be a selfish cow sometimes and my son was telling her how’s he getting chocolate cake and chocolate ice cream. 
My MIL said she didn’t like that and my so. Should get something we all like. 

My son said “it’s not your birthday so you don’t get a say”
This would be normally disrespectful but recently said this to my son when went to his friend’s party.  When my son didn’t like the cake flavor and we had the discussion about how the birthday person gets to choose their cake flavor because it’s their special day. 

My MIL was shocked and I told her the same thing I told my son “when it’s your birthday you can get whatever flavor of cake you want” 

My MIL called me a bitch and my son a spoiled brat. So I told her “with that attitude you won’t be coming to the party” 

My Husband was wtf and tried to talk me into ordering his mom a cake she would enjoy after our son and I was “rude” to her. 

 I said no it isn’t her day and that just teaches our son to act entitled at other peoples parties if we don’t stick to the rules and etiquette that we explain to him and it will just make him confused, entitled, and spoiled. 

My husband saw the truth in that because our son was excited about his birthday cake for his birthday and now understands that not everything is about him. Other people get to enjoy their special event how they want to. In return my son gets to enjoy his special event and occasions how he wants to. 

My MIL doesn’t seem to get that and wants my som to write her a “sorry note” and what he did wrong. 
My husband and I don’t feel like my son did anything wrong by repeating what his parents told him. 

My MIL said she’s not coming to the birthday party or getting him a gift without the apology note. I told my MIL that’s all on her. 
Welcome to /r/AmITheAsshole. Please view our [voting guide here](https://www.reddit.com/r/AmItheAsshole/wiki/faq#wiki_what.2019s_with_these_acronyms.3F_what_do_they_mean.3F), and remember to use **only one** judgement in your comment.

OP has offered the following explanation for why they think they might be the asshole:

 > I understand what my said to his grandmother could be considered extremely rude to some people because kids do not “talk back” to adults.

Help keep the sub engaging!

#Don’t downvote assholes!

Do upvote interesting posts!

 [Click Here For Our Rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/AmItheAsshole/about/rules) and [Click Here For Our FAQ](https://www.reddit.com/r/AmItheAsshole/wiki/faq)

##Subreddit Announcements

Follow the link above to learn more

---

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose/?to=/r/AmItheAsshole) if you have any questions or concerns.*

*Contest mode is 1.5 hours long on this post.*
NTA

Your MIL's behavior is so entitled and rude that she got called on it by a 5 year old.  That *should* sting, but it should be a wake up call that she's incredibly out of pocket.  It's not spoiled at all to want to have your birthday cake be in your favorite flavor, but it's *incredibly* spoiled and selfish to tell someone else to change their birthday cake flavor to suit you.  

There is someone acting like a spoiled brat 5 year old here, but it's not the actual 5 year old.  And hopefully, MIL sticks to her word.  You'll have a better time without her and her childish behavior in attendance when you're trying to teach your son how to act with maturity.  

Personally, I think your son acted well.  His statement wasn't rude at all.  The rudeness was coming from your MIL, and he simply shut that down and stood up for himself.  That's very impressive from a 5 year old!
[removed]
> My MIL called me a bitch and my son a spoiled brat.  
  
NTA - For wanting to have a cake his way on his birthday?? WOW, well we all know who is acting like a 5 year old here and it's not your son!!
NTA

>I said no it isn’t her day and that just teaches our son to act entitled at other peoples parties if we don’t stick to the rules and etiquette that we explain to him and it will just make him confused, entitled, and spoiled.

>My husband saw the truth in that because our son was excited about his birthday cake for his birthday and now understands that not everything is about him. Other people get to enjoy their special event how they want to. In return my son gets to enjoy his special event and occasions how he wants to.

>My MIL doesn’t seem to get that and wants my som to write her a “sorry note” and what he did wrong. My husband and I don’t feel like my son did anything wrong by repeating what his parents told him.

>My MIL said she’s not coming to the birthday party or getting him a gift without the apology note. I told my MIL that’s all on her.

MIL is acting like a 5 year old and your 5 year old is acting like a grown up!!!  Kudos Mom for letting your son have the final say on HIS day!!
NTA. 

But why is your husband not sticking up for you and your son? He’s equally guilty here for that.
NTA. 

"Our CHILD does not owe you an apology for stating the truth. His birthday is about him. What he said to you was just repeating something we recently said to him at another child's birthday. It was not rude, and it was not out of line. You can disagree all you want, but we're not going to force him to pretend to be sorry. This is his birthday, and he should get the cake HE wants on his one day. If you are going to hold a grudge against a small child over your hurt feelings, skip his birthday, withhold gifts, and not be in his life, then that is your choice as an adult. And it is your relationship with your grandchildren that will suffer."
NTA.

“ My MIL said she’s not coming to the birthday party or getting him a gift without the apology note. I told my MIL that’s all on her.”

Good, because I’m pretty sure you uninvited her to begin with. 
[removed]
She is arguing with a 5 year old child over his birthday cake and has the audacity to claim he is in the wrong?  Let her stay home and miss the party.  Naughty children do not get to go to birthday parties.  NTA
Tell your MIL your son will apologize after she writes you a "sorry note" for calling you a bitch and your son a brat. I predict that will happen exactly never.

I think you're taking the exact right tone here. If she expects to make her grandson's events all about her, it's important that she understand how that is not going to work. (I feel some sympathy for your husband's childhood.) If she expects that calling names will get what she wants, she is less mature than your 5-year-old.

NTA. Keep up the good work.
NTA

My petty self would write the following apology note 

Dear Grandma

I’m sorry I embarrassed you by reminding you about courtesy and manners.  I know you are doing your best and will try harder to be nice in the future 

Love grandson
The first time I picked my cakes flavor (and got it) I was 15. Until then my mother would TELL ME I didn't like cake and then get her favorite flavor "since you won't enjoy it anyway". Granted, I hate her favorite flavor so I would not eat it and just proved her right. 

I managed to get a small coffee pie for my 15th, but it was a tiny pie while she got the big main cake in her flavor.

Turns out I actually LIKE cake! I like it very much when I'm allowed to pick. OP's MIL is entitled and will find herself alone very soon
Your MIL is being unreasonable. It's your son's birthday, and he should get to choose the cake he wants. You’ve taught him that birthdays are about celebrating the person, and your MIL is acting entitled by demanding a cake she likes. Your son didn't do anything wrong, he was simply repeating what you taught him about respect for others' special days.
No one who calls me a bitch is welcome in my home. That's what jumped out at me in this story. That's where I'd draw the line. If Grandma is EVER allowed back in, it will be after a sincere apology and a promise to behave respectfully.
NTA - you MIL is a grown ass woman who can buy whatever type of cake she likes every damn day of the week, if she wants.

Edit: typo
Why is this woman so obsessed with cake?!

Does she not realise that declining to eat cake is an option?

As for a response to MIL, I’d used my 12 yo’s favourite phrase. “That sounds like a you problem” 😄

NTA
I’ve had to deal with this throughout my kids growing up and it’s my rule too. My kids don’t love chocolate. Anytime there is a party where it’s there they would sometimes be upset but I would also tell them that it was the birthday person’s choice and if they didn’t want it, then they didn’t have to have it.
>*My MIL said she’s not coming to the birthday party or getting him a gift without the apology note.* 

Threatening you with a good time.
NTA. She was acting like a brat. Your husband shouldn’t have suggested her getting a cake to her liking because that’s just rewarding bad behavior.
NTA.

Peak parenting for your part!
Good on ya!

Your MIL needs to get over her self, because I'm sure the people around you are over her already.
NTA.  The Birthday Person gets to have the party the way they like it (within reason or their parents limitations). 

Your son was simply repeating what he had learned from you, and abiding by it. 

If your MIL is so entitled and immature that she can’t cope with what a 5 year old says to her, then it actually IS all on her.

Tell her she can come by when she grows all the way up.  

In the meantime, she can go buy herself a cake and eat it all by herself, since having cake is more important than celebrating with her grandchild.
NTA.

My MIL is cut from the same cloth. I've tried to cater to her in the past, and it was a mistake. The more I tried to appease her, the more demanding she was. Unfortunately, back then, there was no Reddit to help me empower myself, so I had to learn some stuff for myself. Glad you have a bunch of people confirming that she is the problem.
1] People who call me a b****, DON'T get invited to my home again. 

2] People who call my child a spoiled brat DON'T get to come to the birthday party. They also never get to spend time alone with my kid *ever again*

3] I'm a mom and a grandma : refer back to rules 1 and 2.
NTA

but your husband is TA for letting his mother call you a bitch. That’s way worse and more crass than anything you or your son said, both of you were being polite and laying down boundaries, but she was actually rude. If anyone needs to apologize, it’s her for saying that and your husband for letting it happen without consequences.
Looks like someone's parents don’t stick to the rules and etiquette, and now we have a certain MIL that is confused, entitled, and spoiled. 😂

NTA
I would write your MIL an apology note “I’m sorry your mommy didn’t teach you better manners”
NTA and any discussion about fixing things with MIL should start with your husband getting his mother to apologize for calling you a bitch. She can remain banned until that happens.
Are you married to one of my husband's siblings?

NTA

My MIL is exactly like that.
I just ghosted her and her husband around the time my first child was 3 yrs old. They sent messages and tried calling and I just never answered anymore.
Why? Because I don't want to expose my child to that kind of toxicity.

My husband followed my decision 2-3 years after that.

Best decision for everybody's mental health.
Imagine being a full-grown adult who won't allow a 5 year old to have the flavour cake they want on their birthday. She doesn't have to eat the cake. NTA.
NTA. Tell your MIL you won’t be providing a separate cake, or separate gifts, for any kids, friends, or relatives who don’t like your son’s choice of cake. 

Tell her that she needs to think long and hard about escalating things, because this is how people get cut off.

Say that her calling you a bitch in front of your son, for any reason let alone over a cake, will never happen again, or you’re done.   

If she says a single disparaging word to your 5 year old, to make him feel bad over his birthday cake, then she won’t see him again for a very long time. 

If she does not attend his birthday party because she dislikes his cake, she will not be invited to any more birthday parties, and will be made to leave if she crashes them. 

What she is doing will give your son issues, such as that what everyone else wants matters more than what he does. 

All this stupid drama in a grown woman  over a child’s birthday cake is appalling. 

I have no idea if she’s clinically a narcissist, but colloquially, she’s checking all the boxes, including claiming victimhood. 

Protect your child from harm. She is harming him. 

She’s welcome to FAFO and not get invited to anything.
How about "my MIL called me a bitch so she isn't coming  and will no longer be welcome in my home"?  I'm a little surprised that you aren't laying down a hard boundary of consequences after that.
NTA and your son wasn't rude either. 

If MIL is so set on eating cake that she likes, she can go buy a slice for herself and eat it while everyone else enjoys your son's cake choice. Or just not eat cake. It's what people with allergies/food sensitivies have to do if they wish to still feel like they are a part of the celebration without forcing their preferences/needs on others.
NTA

Holy Cow!  We talk about how entitled kids can be "these days".    But Reddit has shown me soooo many entitled adults that try to override children's choices for their own benefit. It's frankly sickening.
NTA you are not wrong and neither was your son and I’m glad your husband saw the error of his ways.
NTA. So many good points here about your MIL’s behavior.

Your husband could benefit from some backbone though. It is frustrating to hear he was slow to realize that her behavior was *insane*! Explaining that to him must have been excruciating for you!!!

Maybe some resources for him explaining narcissism will help because that grandma sounds like a textbook case……
I'ma be honest, at first I thought this was rage bait. What kind of despicable adult do you have to be to treat a 5 year old like this about THEIR birthday. WAY out of line. My family would be no contact with the MIL until she gives a sincere, heartfelt apology. She would definitely NOT be welcome at the party.
NTA. Your MIL doesn't get to dictate birthday cake flavors unless it's her birthday.

She seems like a spoiled brat.
NTA. Good for you and your husband--you're right that giving in to her will teach your son a very bad lesson. Too bad she's too immature to learn it. \[ETA: I'm assuming your husband is insisting she apologize for calling you a bitch? If not, then he's an AH too.\]
NTA. Your son is right and MIL chose to take offense to this. If anyone should be sorry, it is her for using offensive language and name calling
MIL - "I'm not coming"

Me - "We'll take lots of photos"

NTA
Her not coming is an excellent gift.
“Dear grandma, sorry you don’t get to come to my birthday party because you are a crybaby.”
NTA- Good Job on Parenting and teaching a valuable lesson - too bad MIL can't learn it. Glad your husband saw the light on it.
What if it were a 5 year old girl and wanted dinosaur themed party but MIL wanted pink fairies and dresses and a pink cake ? That's not respecting the child's wishes AND ITS HER BIRTHDAY
NTA
She's trying to make it all about her. She sounds exhausting. My condolences OP.
NTA. You didn't tell your MIL age but from descriptions I would assume she's 4.


Kudos to your kid for being the better person, you gotta set the example for the younger. 
Anyone get the feeling there will be more stories from this MIL?

NTA
NTA.  I wouldn't even invite MIL to the party at this point.  IF she shows up, be prepared to escort her out.
NTA.  

"That's all on her."  'Nuff said.
NTA. You are clearly teaching your son a lesson your MIL never learned - including how to deal with uninvited parenting.
The wildest part of this story is you having to sit your own husband down and explain to him like he's 5 years old why his mother is being spoiled, entitled and in the wrong.

NTA. I hope your husband is now standing up to his mother.
When all is said and done, send your husband over to /r/raisedbynarcissists. NTA 


Hey my guy. My mom was like yours. It isn't normal and it isn't healthy. You don't have to accommodate someone who punishes you for non-compliance. Your wife and child are now your family and family comes first.


Sorry Mom. Get in line.
NTA. I can't believe your husband doesn't have your back on this. His mother can go one day without her favorite flavor of cake.
NTA 

Does your mom have npd? Because that is some seriously entitled childish behavior
I would have just laughed at her because she was already univited
OP I wish I could give you a massive high five for this amazing lesson you have taught your son, which is absolutely relevant in this day and age, that it’s not always about him. All while simultaneously putting your “selfish cow” of a MIL in her place. Bravo OP. You’ve taught your son a valuable lesson to respect other people’s events and choices and in return his get respected by you. He will always remember that.

ETA. Absolutely NTA
NTA. You will probably have a much better day without her there. Some people are just so entitled and make everything about them. MIL needs to grow up.
 NTA- how can some people make such demands without embarrassing themselves is beyond me
Nta

Hey, mil, you're supposed to be a grandma. Grandma's put their grandkids first always. No matter what!
So I’m assuming that when MIL’s birthday rolls around your son gets to dictate what she’s eating and how she’s going to celebrate?
The actual spoiled brat is the grown adult trying to enforce her own tastes on a child’s birthday party.
NTA. Does she want a gift to open as well, for when he opens his?
OP AND HUBBY=NTA

MIL=GAPING AHOLE

OP, YOU have taught your son well. Dad finally came around, good. MIL is a STONE COLD RUDE B**CH, and frankly, she needs an updated lesson in manners and decorum. 

Keep your plans for ONE CAKE that your son wants as it's his special day, NOT HERS. 

Frankly, I wouldn't allow her near my son or myself until she apologizes and gets some manners. 

Just as an example of why your answer to her is so right. 

My hubby and I have a birthday routine we have done for many, many years. Birthday person picks a movie and the restaurant they want to eat at. The other person does the same on theirs. The non birthday finds something on the menu that works for them and sees the movie even if it's not a (love it) choice. Fortunately, we have similar but not always identical tastes in food and movies, so it works for us. My main point is learning compromise, and you are teaching that to your child. I say Bravo to both of you and your son. 

YOUR MIL CAN GO S**K AND EGGPLANT OR CUCUMBER.
ESH

Yeah, your MIL is a selfish cow. How actually thinks they have a say in the cake selection for someone else's party? And she called you and your son names on top of that. Yikes!

>it’s not your birthday so you don’t get a say

I get that he was repeating something he just learned and as a young child, he didn't fully understand the tone. But isn't that moment the teaching opportunity? It seems like that would have been the time to explain to him that while he is right, we don't speak to adults that way. That goes to your point about not wanting him to be entitled.

Your husband's solution is very silly. You're not getting a cake for everyone at the party. I am taking a wild guess here, but if that is his pattern then I see why your MIL behaves that way. He is enabling it.
>My son said “it’s not your birthday so you don’t get a say”

Good for him!!!

And 100% birthday person makes the choice(in our house they also get to choose what is for dinner that night) My oldest usually asks for brownies or cookies as he doesn't like most cakes or frosting at all.

My youngest is cake, or cupcakes in just about any flavour but chocolate with chocolate icing is usually her go-to.

Hubby is carrot cake or pecan pie

And for me, it's ice cream, lol 

We, of course, make changes for any allergies (my daughter has a dairy allergy so she of course can't have regular ice cream, but she gets a little half pint of a flavour she can have) but not because "Grandma doesn't like it" not your day not your choice.


OP, you are NTA, but you need to have a serious conversation with your husband about his mother. Because if my MIL ever called me a bitch, or our kid a spoiled brat, there is no way my husband would stand for that
I’ve made pumpkin pie, cherry pie, cheesecake, and chocolate on chocolate cake for birthdays.  Birthday person gets their choice and the rest of us eat it.  Your son has excellent taste….chocolate on chocolate cake is the best.
My DILs mother is a narcissistic ball of hair. She claims to be allergic to chocolate so all cakes, no matter the occasion, have to be vanilla.
You sound like you are doing a great job with your son. I wish more people parented like this.
NTA. If MIL or someone else had an allergy then having an alternative would not be an issue, imo. Otherwise MIL can eat chocolate 🎂
Stick to your guns. Your husband is who will relent.
Does your MIL want a gift too? And what kind of grandma doesn’t want her grandchild to have any cake they want?!
Good for you. Keep it up.
Good riddance! The party will be so much better and more fun without her! Well done for sticking to your guns!
NTA

What is good for the goose is good for the gander he gets what he wants on his birthday other kids what they want on their birthdays. This is a great lesson about entitlement for both of them.
Nta. We know which ones the true spoiled brat
NTA. It funny how your 5 year old is more mature than your MIL.
NTA.  You are absolutely right.
So this grown ass adult is fighting it out with a 5 year old.  Yeah NTA.
Good - she can stay away. No cake for YOU, MIL.............
Is your mil also 5?
You should stand up for yourself. It’s your son’s birthday and he should have any cake he wants.
NTA
I’m sorry you have to deal with a MIL like that and more sorry for your poor child, with a grandma like that!!
She is so entitled that she’s competing with a 5 year old! 
Honestly, if my parents or my husband’s parents act like that, they will be cut off from my son’s life! It will be their loss. How your husband didn’t stick up for you and his own child is beyond me. 
Your MIL should be apologizing for acting like a child! 
If she doesn’t like something, just don’t eat it. 
I think it will probably be a good thing she doesn’t come. What a good way to put a kid down on their own birthday, so sad.
NTA
NTA Your MIL doesn't get to call the shots at somebody else's birthday.
NTA Even without reinforcing a recent message, your MIL was trying to bully a kid in to changing a choice they made and were excited for.

That’s incredibly messed up, doubly so because chocolate/chocolate isn’t some unusual choice for a small child’s birthday.
My husband would never speak to his mother again if she called me a bitch. He would be livid.
I'm sorry, she called you WHAT? 
That woman would be escorted out of my house and life for a loooong time

NTA. What a nightmare of a MIL. She can shover her own favorite cake you know where
Tell her to fuck the fuck off. 

  
Over there.
ESH

You are definitely not TA for only making a chocolate cake, because you are right that it is the birthday boy's decision. She was being entitled to demand something else, and she shouldn't have insulted you or your son. It's also weird of her to refuse to come without an apology letter for something so silly and small.

However, it really doesn't sound like you were doing this tactfully. The way you approached the conversation in the first place just seems kind of unnecessarily hostile. It's hard to tell what tone you had by reading the story, so maybe I'm wrong, but after your son said "it's not your birthday you don't get a say" (which also could have been said very rudely or maybe not), you could have easily just kindly explained to your MIL that you promised him whatever he wants, and so he gets to pick. You could have also told her (kindly) that she can bring something else if she won't want to eat what you make. But just pretty much saying "it's not your birthday" sounds like you're trying to pick a fight, especially if you both know you already don't get along.

So... you're not wrong, you just weren't very nice about it.
Get her a whole ass cake. Announce to all the adults that this  cake is just for her because it's really important that she gets a flavor she likes at every birthday party. Put candles on it and loudly ask her if she'd like like everyone to sing to her, and what song.  Make it weird.
^^^^AUTOMOD  ***Thanks for posting! This comment is a copy of your post so readers can see the original text if your post is edited or removed. This comment is NOT accusing you of copying anything. Read [this](https://www.reddit.com/r/AmItheAsshole/wiki/faq#wiki_post_deletion) before [contacting the mod team](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FAmItheAsshole)***

My 5 year old son’s birthday is coming up and he wants a chocolate cake with chocolate icing. It’s his birthday so I said yes. 

My MIL can be a selfish cow sometimes and my son was telling her how’s he getting chocolate cake and chocolate ice cream. 
My MIL said she didn’t like that and my so. Should get something we all like. 

My son said “it’s not your birthday so you don’t get a say”
This would be normally disrespectful but recently said this to my son when went to his friend’s party.  When my son didn’t like the cake flavor and we had the discussion about how the birthday person gets to choose their cake flavor because it’s their special day. 

My MIL was shocked and I told her the same thing I told my son “when it’s your birthday you can get whatever flavor of cake you want” 

My MIL called me a bitch and my son a spoiled brat. So I told her “with that attitude you won’t be coming to the party” 

My Husband was wtf and tried to talk me into ordering his mom a cake she would enjoy after our son and I was “rude” to her. 

 I said no it isn’t her day and that just teaches our son to act entitled at other peoples parties if we don’t stick to the rules and etiquette that we explain to him and it will just make him confused, entitled, and spoiled. 

My husband saw the truth in that because our son was excited about his birthday cake for his birthday and now understands that not everything is about him. Other people get to enjoy their special event how they want to. In return my son gets to enjoy his special event and occasions how he wants to. 

My MIL doesn’t seem to get that and wants my som to write her a “sorry note” and what he did wrong. 
My husband and I don’t feel like my son did anything wrong by repeating what his parents told him. 

My MIL said she’s not coming to the birthday party or getting him a gift without the apology note. I told my MIL that’s all on her. 

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/AmItheAsshole) if you have any questions or concerns.*
NTA and punt this issue solely in your husband's corner. You have been on the front lines and she does not respect you nor your decision. May your beloved enjoy the heck out of his cake!
NTA.. MIL is more childish than birthday child. She called you a B and son a spoiled brat for not accommodating her on your sons birthday. And now, she will not get her grandchild a present because she's not getting what she wants..
Oh no, what a shame, MIL won't be attending a 5 year old party, I'm sure eeeeeeveryone will be absolutely gutted /s

Write her an apology saying "Sorry you don't get a choice in the cake". As a grown up with her own money she can go buy her own any day of the year.
The boy repeated something he learned, and he applied it aptly. 

Only one person was rude, and that’s MIL. If someone should apologize, it is she. I hope she doesn’t attend because she is no fun.
MIL sounds like someone who thinks they deserve everything just because they have lived longer. I'd think she's had plenty of chocolate cake in her many years on this planet, while the 5 year old has not.
NTA. Does MIL think she's allowed to call her DIL a bitch and still be respected? The audacity of this woman. Also, who complains about someone else's birthday cake? She's old enough to understand not everything is about her. Jeez.
In the unlikely event she does show up,  please only serve chocolate ice cream and chocolate milk with the cake.  Yep, Im that petty.
NTA and boy I’m sure you have some wedding and baby shower horror stories to share with us!!!
NTA - let your MIL sit in the corner and have her tantrum. She wants to act like a child? Treat her like one, into time out she goes lol.
Your MIL shouldn’t be going somewhere when she’s not invited to begin with. 

NTA
MIL can put on her big girl pants and go out for a slice of cake after the party. So what if she doesn't like the cake? Can she not live with out a piece of cake? It would never occur to me to comment on the flavor of someone else's cake. Have some or don't.
Your MIL can just not come .. f that w….
my nearly 70 old father was recently bitching about not wanted to buy an overpriced (under 50) cake in a flavor he didn't even like around my moms birthday- i got her the one she wanted but still 🙃🫠
NTA.  Your MIL is entitled and out of line not only for wanting a different cake because SHE doesn't like chocolate and for making your son think he behaved badly and owes her an apology note. Kudos to you for standing your ground and teaching your son that not everything can or should go his way.

Go no or low contact with MIL until she grows up and realizes that she isn't royalty.  Not everything is about her. Time to knock her down a few pegs from that high horse of hers.
Is this for real? Is a grandmother really throwing a tantrum about her grandchild's birthday cake? This nonsense if unforgiveable. I don't get people nowadays. What in the actual? If she were gluten intolerant, would everyone be expected to eat Birthday Raisins? Holy Cow!
NTA at all!  The birthday person gets their choice of cake for their celebration has always been the norm for birthday celebrations.  As was told to her, on her birthday she gets to choose the cake flavour.  If an attendee doesn't like it, would she make sure there was another cake available for them?  Your son did nothing wrong.  Your husband needs to learn how to stand by and up for his wife and son.
NTA

Ignore the AH.
NTA

i would do malicious compliance and apologise that her parents raised someone so selfish as to, demand a child change his birthday cake to accomodate her unreasonable desire
NTA. And, also, your husband needs to stop being afraid of his mommy.
“Of course she’s not coming. Her invitation has been rescinded. As a matter of fact, she owes both son and I an apology for using profanity in front of son and for call me a bitch. Until she offers us sincere apologies, she won’t be invited to ANY events I host.”
She called you a bitch in front of a child and she wants the child to apologize? Bwahahaha no

NTA
NTA She called you and your son names because she didn’t get her own way. She’s the one who needs to apologise.
She swore at you…… NTa
Get your son his chocolate cake. Do as your husband says and get mil her own cake to enjoy. Be sure to have mil name on the cake in big letters. Then at the party make an announcement "Mil here's the cake you demanded!" Then drop the cake in front of her and ignore her for the rest of the party. Bring out the real cake and make your son happy!
NTA

How would that apology even go? 

“I’m sorry I didn’t let you make my birthday about you?”
OP was rude to her MIL. Could have said that she doesn't have to eat it. Getting another cake of the flavor that a 'guest' wants is ridiculous.
Good! 👍 problem solved.. Tell her you hope she gets the day she deserves. 🫶🏼👋🏼👋🏼👋🏼👋🏼
NTA! Name calling? How old are we, grandma?! I can't believe the gall of her wanting her \*own\* cake for her GRANDSON'S BIRTHDAY?! Ugh. Keep your nasty ass home. 

I'll bet she's never been the same, since that house fell on her sister.
Her not coming would be a blessing 
Enjoy the day
The calling you a bitch is what got me..
I know this is going to get down voted to hell, but you would never hear this story from a FIL. I’m guessing this is a white woman that’s almost never been told no in her entire life even to the point where she thinks her grandson’s birthday is about her. The audacity of some people. I’m white by the way so you can’t say I’m racist. Ive witnessed this shit my entire life. A dad or spouse that just gets walked all over gives them the impression that everyone will bow to their every whim or need. It’s fucking insane. It’s all in the same vein as white woman feminism. They always want to be the victim, but don’t actually care to help anyone who is actually disenfranchised.
"My MIL said she’s not coming to the birthday party or getting him a gift..." 

horaaayyyyy!  MIL is doing the no contact work for you!  Run with it.  Don't reach out to her.  If your husband decides to, make sure he's on the same page as you as far as what is normal and acceptable behavior from an adult.
MIL doesn’t have to eat the cake. Have another “white” cake for the people that don’t like chocolate and leave it at that.
Did she say those things in front of your son? I'd definitely never let her near him again. And I'd seriously consider going no contact even if he wasn't there. That was toxic, abusive and selfish.
NTA, but you should teach your son to be more respectful with his words. "My mom said it's my birthday and I can choose what I want" would have gone over much better. At this age, he should defer to you to duke it out with the adults. It's not his place.
Lmao, if one of my mother in laws (I have two, blended family) called me a bitch - not only would I NOT get her a cake, I’d go no contact and not let her see her grand children. Play stupid games and win stupid prizes.
I hate cake and anything chocolate. That has never stopped me from making a chocolate cake for any of my kids. I do not care if they choose chocolate ice cream because that is their choice. 
Growing up I would always have pumpkin pie for my birthday instead. And did not ever hear anyone complain about it. Now that I am older I am learning that not everyone enjoys pumpkin pie. But they know that is what I will want. 
No one should ever tell a child that they can’t pick that option because the other person doesn’t like it. Your son has nothing to apologize for. He has made a decision on his own about something important to him. 
I can’t see telling him that he can’t choose that helping his confidence in making future decisions.
I imagine your husband had to grown up trying to not rock the boat with his mom.  Good for him for thinking rationally about this and not continuing to try to get you and your son to do what she wants just to keep the peace.   Time to go low or no contact with her.  If she can’t be polite, she is not invited.  NTA.
NTA. And your husband didn't react when she called you bitch??? for real???
MIL sounds like a raging narcissist and there should be some SERIOUS  and very clear definitive boundaries laid down. Alone time with your son should be off limits because I guarantee she’s brainwashing or trying behind your backs or talking crap at the least. Everything she has said about you and your son is exactly what SHE IS. Your husband may have some serious trauma from a mother like that. I could be wrong, this is just an observation and guess. Educate yourself on Narcissistic Personality Disorder, take it very seriously and go from there. Best of luck to you! Don’t second guess your parenting, you sound like an amazing Mom and you two seem to vibe well. YOU ARE THE PARENTS. STICK TO YOUR WORD. Period. ❤️
NTA

OMG I can't believe a grown ass person can make such a fuss over a 5 yo birthday cake. Tell her she can apologize herself with your son for acting like a 4 yo, and then she can come to her grandchild's bday. 

Regarding your boy, it is not disrespectful to state an obvious fact, and she may have been offended by the tone "you don't get a say" but he is 5, he is an innocent child who's still learning the art of being "correct". 

If you consider he used an incorrect tone or language, you can have a conversation with him, so he can learn how to adapt to your standards, but IMO your actions were spot on.

Unrelated to all this, who doesn't like chocolate cake? Is she an alien?

(Sorry if my English is not perfect, not my first language, and a little rusty)

Good luck with the party!  Happy birthday for your kid!
A sorry note? That is incredibly weird. This old woman is upset that a 5 year old kid didn’t make his birthday about her? NTA. If you have set the precedent that the birthday person chooses the cake flavor then that’s what you should stick with. I would explain to him that grandma is having a temper tantrum and to pay her no mind about this. He is welcome to have his cake and enjoy it to the fullest. Also, I would ban grandma for calling names. It is not a tolerable behavior and it’s not something you want to teach your kiddo to tolerate. 
Get his mom her own cake? What is she? 5 years old? 

NTA
Get the mother in law a cake of her own choosing. 

When she arrives at the party, smash her cake over her head, and tell her to GET THE F. OUT. 

Well… it’s a nice fantasy, and you probably shouldn’t actually DO this — but you’re NTA (but your MIL is a **world-class AH** ).  

Feel free to show her this. I wonder if she calls the police every time a black person goes to the park when she’s there.
1. Please don’t insult the cows like that, they’re lovely creatures. 💕

2. Your son deserves whatever cake he wants on his bday! NTA!

3. Your MIL needs this time away from you guys to realize you have boundaries that will not be crossed.
Your MIL is mad because your five-year-old son wants a *checks notes* chocolate cake for his birthday?  
She was wrong at every point. Your son’s response would have been perfectly reasonable even without a prior discussion. If there is an outcome where she doesn’t come to the party, that sounds like a win. NTA, and if my mother called my wife a bitch she would not return to the house until she apologized, and maybe not then. “Spoiled brat” isn’t much better.
She’s refusing to come? Sounds like you won the lottery. Nta.
The MIL wants an apology letter from a 5yr old over the flavour of his birthday cake? She needs to grow up.
Your son is awesome. Good for him. Sticking up for himself! You’ve done well, mama. 

Fuck the MIL and her sorry note. Enjoy your kids party while she sulks.
NTA

I have never, ever heard of someone ordering multiple cakes because a guest “doesn’t like the flavor”. WTF? 

Your MIL is apparently turning 6 years old, instead of your son. Let her enjoy her timeout she put herself in.
Everyone involved in this is the AH
If you did order his mom something what would that show your son? Yeah good for you standing your ground being consistent 😠

Edit: I didn’t finish reading 😂


Edit 2: LETS GOOOOO!!!
It is absolutely HILARIOUS that a 5 yr old understands the whole "don't act entitled or spoiled on another person's birthday" but your MIL, a mother and a grandmother, does not. 


And your husband wanting to order her a cake on your son's birthday? Wtf. Even if he didn't "know the backstory" who does that? What a shitty thing to even suggest. 
Your MIL sounds like she's the 5 yo in this situation.
NTA. This is just me, but if my MIL called me and my kid that, I'd go no contact. My partner can see their parents whenever they want, but no kid of mine would be exposed to that.
NTA. Also; why would it be considered disrespectful to tell her that? It's true and he didn't curse her or call her names. He stated a fact.
NTA - Your MIL not coming to the party is a win. If she's not there, she can't ruin the party. 

Or a different note, who can be miserable enough to quarrel with a 5-year-old about his party's cake?
OP NTA, and your son should learn to talk back always. He didn’t used swear words and just stated the facts. 
If your kind don’t learn to talk back, he could get in a situation with an adult, that wouldn’t be good for him.
He has to learn to defend himself without using swear words and he did. Bravo!
I read many story on this forum, but somehow, this rather simple one shocked me very much. I would stay as far as possible from MIL. She sounds surreal, evil and selfish. NTA 
NTA. This grown ass woman can bring an extra cake if she can’t manage to survive 2-4 hours with a chocolate cake sitting at the table. She could also just buy whatever she wants and eat it at home and have it all to herself. 


She has options. She shouldn’t be calling names and demanding apologies.  Where is your apology? What she did was way more disrespectful.
You’re MIL sounds dreadful and so entitled. I’ll be cutting her out of your lives.
NTA. 


Sounds like a win win for you. Your son gets the cake he wants for HIS birthday and you don't have to cater to the spoiled overgrown toddler that is your MIL! 
Enjoy the party without her and her main character syndrome. 
The MIL is the 5 year old
MIL is the spoiled brat. She doesn't get to dictate what is served and for sure doesn't need her own cake, wtf is wrong with your husband for even suggesting that???? And she called his son a spoiled brat and he wants to pacify her?? He needs to get his testes back from mommy and stand up for his wife and child. Of course you're NTA
It's a birthday cake... I remember when I was little and my mom would ask what kind of cake I wanted for my birthday and I was excited about being the one to decide (usual between strawberry and chocolate cause that was the only options my mom knew how to make). It was a small thing, but for my little brain it was a incredible power. 

If you don't like the cake at a child's (or adults, cause adults also get to say what the birthday cake is) birthday - don't eat it. You can have whatever cake you want literally every day, you're adult, you can get cake, children can't.
Tell your MIL she can buy her own cake and bring it if it’s such a problem. You’ll have the main cake and a side cake. If you think that would cause problems at the party then don’t do it, but that’d be my suggestion.
NTA.
So you 5 year old  said something that he was right about and MIL wants an apology?
From an 5 year old who was right?
For having what he wants on his birthday?
How bout no!
She can wait forever.. 
And your son will have more cake..
She is not coming without an apology? Lol  Tell her she's uninvited and if she chooses to punish her grandchild on his bday , she can stay uninvited to most future events also until she apologizes , to all of you .
Whose the child here? Your MIL or your son?

That woman needs a reality check!

Your husband needs to learn to protect his family from everyone, including his childish mother, and make her write an apology note for calling you both names? She may be his mother but sometimes they need putting back into their boxes.

Tell your MIL that your son doesn't need her to be at his birthday party or a gift from someone who thinks the birthday is about them and acts out by being verbally abusive towards them. That kind of person is not welcome around your child. She's not welcome until she give a proper apology.

NTA
Okay she wants an apology note? Here we go:

Dear Grandmother,

I am so sorry that you don’t seem to realize that on a persons birthday that it’s THEIR special day! The same way that on your birthday you wouldn’t appreciate getting a cake in the wrong flavor(because it’s your birthday), it would be rude for me not to get what I want on my birthday!  If you really don’t like chocolate cake and chocolate ice cream you should feel free to bring your own. I’m so sorry that this was NEVER taught to you that YOU don’t get to rule every birthday with what YOU want. Hope this helps you and again sorry for YOUR ignorance

Your thoughtful Grandson
NTA. There is a spoiled brat in this story, but it’s not your son.
Tell your mother in law she’s not allowed around your son again until she apologizes to you and your son. If your husband doesn’t like it then he’s more on his mother’s side than your family’s. My husband would never tolerate anyone disrespecting me like that.
>My MIL said she’s not coming to the birthday party or getting him a gift without the apology note

Fine.  She gets to make her choices and live with those consequences.  The consequence will be: At least one grandchild will learn she's the not-so-nice granny. I'm sure the others will eventually learn this too. ( I mean... if she were the nice granny, she'd bring a *second* cake of her choice and extra candles! )

Let us know if she sticks to not coming!  I don't know anything but what you've written, but I bet she'll end up coming. :)

You are NTA.
Imagine your grandmother, a grown adult telling her grandchild, “no you have to get a cake I like for your birthday.” Pathetic.
I personally would have thrown her out of my house after the name calling and told her via text that she needs to watch her own attitude and is not welcome back after she reflected on her behavior and apologized.  And she would have not been allowed to be part of the birthday party no matter what.
Why doesn’t she buy a cake that she likes? She’s an adult. Does she know that adults can literally have cake whenever the fuck they want? They actually don’t have to try and hijack a child’s party so they can have cake. She knows this right. Maybe you should tell her that. She might not know. We can’t be rude to people because they don’t know things. Have a sit down with her, tell her you’re not mad, but disappointed that she doesn’t know how to adult yet.
JUST today we were at a friend's birthday party and I brought some extra treats to offer up with what they're providing. I wanted to contribute (along with bringing a cooler of drinks they asked us to bring!) but ALSO, my kid has an egg allergy and I wanted to make sure she had something sweet to enjoy while everyone else had cake. 

By NO means did I ever assume they would automatically provide something allergy-friendly my kid could eat. I didn't want to even put any extra mental load on my friend to consider it, I just took care of ourselves the way I could. Similarly, my mom has a TON of allergies including needing to be Gluten Free, and she often brings her own GF cake to parties so she can join in the festivities while being unobtrusive.

I just can't imagine having th GALL to demand I get catered to for a party that someone else is throwing! Especially since that sounds like she's objecting to it based on flavor preferences and not on dietary need. Just absurd to me.
Not only out of pocket for having the tantrum, but to disrespect OP by calling her a bitch and her grandson a spoiled brat - in FRONT of the child!!

Like lady, GET OUT. If anyone needs to write an apology note it is your MIL. And your husband for not using his brain and defending his mother before his wife and child in this case (sometimes the DIL is wrong, but not in this case. Not one bit). 

Thanks for teaching your child empathy and understanding. It’s never too young to start those habits.
> Your MIL's behavior is so entitled and rude that she got called on it by a 5 year old.

For realz.
and you just known that by “a flavor we all like” she meant “a flavor _I_ like”. she didn’t give a flying fuck what the kid whose birthday it actually is wants or enjoys. then she had the gall to call him spoiled! why is it that most people’s choice of insult is at least 90% projection? more than once I’ve wanted to reply “did you mean to say that to the mirror instead?”
Better she don't come to the party anyway. Bet she would keep making comments about the cake and spoil the mood.
And I think OP is right that if she lets MIL get away with this, it will confuse her son on what is and isn’t acceptable. If you correct a child on their behavior, you can’t excuse role models in their life demonstrating that same bad behavior. He needs to see the same rules being applied to everyone
I’d also point out using this type of language and name calling is far past the “rudeness” MIL is accusing OP and the 5 year old of. Even if what they are doing is rude (which it’s not), this type of reaction is worse than the original offense.
I'm shocked.

I can't believe an adult would give a flying f#ck what cake her grandson has at his birthday party!

She can buy a cake every single day of her life if she wants to! This is a big one day a year treat for a 5 year old child.

I can't. I just can't.
Right? Imagine being a whole ass adult and getting bent because (checks notes)... a *five year old wanted a different birthday cake flavor than you.* And then wanting an apology note FROM A FIVE YEAR OLD.

  
Where does this woman get the audacity?
Wow. Your 5 year is showing more maturity than your MIL.
This is something that no one should need to have explained to them at the age of 56. I happen to be 56 and I think I learned about how birthdays work by the age of 4. So, it's not generational!
Yeah nta, this woman Is legit acting like a spoiled 5 year old. Like if you don't like the cake flavour don't eat it then or get something for yourself. And she seriously she called her dil a bitch and her grandson a spoiled brat? Look who's talking. She should be writing a apology note, honestly she sounds very unpleasant. I'd be all too fine with not having her over. 😒
My husband didn’t know the backstory of why my son said that. He wasn’t at his friend’s party a few months ago when I took my son aside and talked to him about hating the cake flavor. 
I agree your husband needs to shut his Mom's entitlement down before you decide you and your son need to go LC or NC. Good job Mom! NTA you taught your son well and it sounds like MIL is in for a bumpy road if she doesn't change her attitude. You might need to work on the hubs as well.
Good for you.  Now stick to it.  This is a pure power play…
Right!!! She called op a bitch and the son a brat over cake. F her.
Every single word of this! My in laws threatened to not come to my oldest seconds birthday and with hold gifts because we told them it would only be the three of us (me, his dad, and the birthday boy) going to Disneyland on his actual birthday (mind you they took a trip and was gone on his first birthday) we offered to go to Disney any other day with them (we lived 45 min away). When my youngest was four I went against my better judgment and let them keep the boys a few days and the youngest was a picky eater. Needless to say after being allowed to snack all day he refused to eat something prepared (think like sweet potatoes) and it hurt their feelings and again they threatened to not go to his birthday. It was then I finally said y’all are adults and I will raise my boys to be respectful but they simply will be allowed to voice their opinions/wants/needs
I would copy this verbatim and send it in place of the sorry note.
The husband needs to send his mother this.   If he doesn’t cut the cord and take his balls back from the mom, the marriage won’t be a happy one, if it lasts.
I’d add

“We are trying to teach son that it’s not appropriate to expect special treatment on someone else’s birthday.”
THIS 
What's the bet that MIL was planning on buying a big fancy cake so she can get all the attention?
MIL never learned the lesson that not everything is about her, and other people get to have special days too.
And make sure to post lots of photos of everyone having a good time without her.
Exactly. I would go scorched fucking earth if my MIL called me a bitch _and did so in front of my child._ (But my MIL is a sweetheart and would never dream of being so rude.) That was unacceptable. OP’s MIL should not be allowed back in the house until she apologizes to both kid and mom. 

NTA, obviously. I would die on this hill.
The MiL is literally having a beef with a 5yr old’s birthday cake choice and the fact she can’t see how ridiculous that is hilarious to me. OP if you’re hosting Xmas, let your son pick the meals cos it’s a family event and he has a say. Let’s nuke this to the ground. MiL needs to get over herself.
What kind of unhinged person would call their daughter-in-law a bitch in front of their grandson? And after sanctimoniously complaining about not being respected? I won’t be surprised if grandson doesn’t have a close relationship with grandma in the future…
Exactly what she said was worse and she’s an adult! And he’s 5 and didn’t say anything wrong
Perfect
Love this!
I'm so sorry your mom made you think you didn't like cake so she could buy her favorite flavor. I hope you eat lots more delicious cakes!
This makes me so sad. A parent making a child’s birthday about themselves somehow seems worse than not celebrating at all.
My heart literally aches for you! How horrible to be gaslit by your parents on your special day for 15 years! :(
I wish you a life filled with people who celebrates YOU on your special day with the things YOU like. I'm sorry you didn't get that from the start. What's your favorite cake?
The only situation where this kind of thing should be considered is if someone in the family has a serious allergy. I like peanuts, and my brother is majorly allergic. Putting him in the same room as an unsealed jar of peanut butter literally puts his life at risk. While I did wish I could have Reese's sometimes, I understood why I wasn't able to do that when we all still lived under the same roof and celebrated birthdays together.

I doubt MIL is allergic to chocolate.
Yeah, I almost stopped reading after the bitch part. The cake is almost incidental to the disrespect coming from the MIL, in her daughter-in-law's own home of all places. The fact that her son countenanced it, is almost as bad.
I remember seeing something somewhere from someone who realized that, as a grown adult, she was free to go buy herself a birthday cake from the store whenever she wanted, so she did, every week, to have her dessert for the week. I remember her saying it filled her with absolute childlike joy to go buy herself an entire cake, for no better reason than SHE WANTED TO. The MIL is welcome to do the same, instead of harrassing a kindergartener on his birthday.
Right? She could just say “no thanks” when offered a slice - like a normal, non-spoiled-brat adult - and buy a whole damn Costco sheet cake on her way home.
Agreed. MIL is also an adult capable of buying her own damn cake (and eating it!), not a child. NTA OP
Because it’s not actually about cake, it’s about control. MIL wants to choose the cake so she can control the situation and make it about her, and since OP won’t let her she’s now throwing a tantrum and trying to manipulate OP’s husband into letting her have her own way. Hopefully she sticks to her word about not coming to the party. Doesn’t sound like she’s a good influence on OP’s son anyway
My kid hates the default white birthday cake and whipped icing. It’s when this conversation started. He couldn’t eat it at a party. Eat it or don’t eat it. It wasn’t his place to complain. 
considering the MIL he probably didn't learn it any better (no excuse tho)
Also, agree with other comments that husband should be standing up for son and wife
We do it this way too my husband and daughter usually picks icebox cake lol. We had to cut my mil off because of how she treated us my husband would also lose his shit if she ever called me or our daughter names like this.
Agree about the ball of hair part, but cake isn't binary.  Cake is a broad spectrum of delightful.  Find something else she hates.  Carrot.  Apple.  Spice.  Coffee. (flavor not coffee cake :D) So. Many. Options.
I'm all for a passive aggressive apology note. 

Grandma, I'm sorry that you are so entitled that you felt that we should make a cake that you like on my birthday. I had no idea you were so selfish. I recently learned that on other people's birthday, they get what they want and we are just there to support them. I didn't realize this didn't apply to you but only the rest of us mortals. 

I cannot apologize enough for not treating you specially and realizing you require a separate set of standards. We will provide a cake to your liking, and if you want, we will light the candles for you and let you blow them out as well...
I'm with you except for the bit about the husband. He didn't know the full story at first when he was defending his mom. As soon as op explained everything to him, he changed his response completely. Sometimes when you're caught in the middle it can be hard to remember you might not have heard the full (or true) story of what happened.
Well, of course!  There's not a single flavor on this earth that absolutely everyone enjoys, and if you had to choose a flavor with the widest appeal, chocolate would probably be on the top of the list anyway!  It's not like this kid chose a super niche cake flavor like lavender macha or something.  The little dude just wanted a chocolate cake for his own birthday!

As someone else who isn't a fan of chocolate, I can't believe this woman got to such a big age with an attitude like this.  Even from childhood, I understood that *most* people like chocolate, I don't and that's fine, but there are going to be times when chocolate whatever is served because it's got a wide appeal and I just need to politely pass on it.
Also, he picked chocolate. Like a super common, very popular cake flavor. Who doesn't like chocolate?!
Mil would have missed every party at our house 😂
Like seriously, take a second for some introspection of how utterly empty your life would have to be to start a fight with your own 5 year old grandkid over his own birthday cake flavor.  Like, you know when you move something in your basement and find the desiccated remains of a mouse that's clearly been dead since 2003?  It's that, but a person's soul.
I am less shocked after my mother couldn't understand why I didn't get chocolate cupcakes for my sister's baby shower. My sister hates chocolate cupcakes and I wanted her to be able to eat everything....at her own party. She was all "but what if someone wants a chocolate cupcake?!" I told her I didn't care, they could go buy one. She loves chocolate cupcakes.

She also hosted my rehearsal dinner at a seafood restaurant when my partner is allergic to shellfish and served bruschetta when I am allergic to tomatoes. I think some people think the world revolves around their wants.
Right? One of the benefits of being an adult is I can buy myself a sweet treat anytime I please! I don’t have to wait for someone’s party to get that.
Right?! Every year my brother would have a cake I hated, guess what, not my birthday. To this day birthday person picks dinner and dessert. It’s just the rules. If you don’t like it, don’t eat it.
Couldn’t agree more
I have a hard time believing people really do walk among us acting this ridiculous, but sadly I've seen it enough to know it's true!
This. I will simply not eat a cake if I don't like the flavor. The cakes I don't eat were never intended for me. On my birthdays, I will buy/eat the cakes I want to eat, and everyone else can skip it if they don't like it. And on the reverse, I will simply not eat the cake if I don't like it after a simply "No thank you".

As you say, adults can buy their friggin' favorite cake any time they want.

A birthday is for the person being celebrated, no the guests. MIL is a big \*ssh\*le. I am still sad I didn't get my favorite flavors on some occasions because my parents bought pre-made cakes instead of home-made like I enjoyed when I was a kid. Make the cake the kid want, simple as that.
I think Audacity should be the word for 2024. 

Because that's what so many of these folks have way too much of and it getting ridiculous. Of my friends, the few that are still in the hospitality industry, telling me the most insane stories about how folks act. I don't know how they're still hanging in there. Everyone else I knew in that business left since covid started. Some took longer than others. This year just seems so much worse. It's really trickling into so many different areas of our lives. 

And I know half the time, or more really, it feels like most of these posts are fake. And maybe they are, but that story is happening somewhere.
Has he since spoken to his mom?

Your husband needs to tell his mom that under no circumstances is it okay to call you a bitch or your son a spoiled brag. If he hasn’t, he’s still an AH in my books.
Um does he know his mom called you a bitch? Or your son a spoiled brat? I would flip my lid if my parent talked to my partner or child like that.
NTA. But regardless of backstory, he should’ve never suggested getting her own cake that she would like. That sort of solution makes no sense since she had no real standing to begin with.
MIL is an adult and can buy her own cake instead of throwing a tantrum because a child gets to define their birthday experience. Wow, is she always this self-absorbed?
No backstory would justify the MIL calling OP a bitch and the 5 yo boy a spoiled brat. MIL is TA, husband is a giant AH, and OP is NTA.
Tell your husband he get her a cake, but it better also come with a personalized bib, since she’s being such a baby! I would never look at her the same, and would probably snicker everytime she opened her mouth, and I’d call her baby more. Definitely tell people she isn’t there because she was jealous of your 5 year old! And threw a tantrum.
That backstory shouldn’t matter. Your son was blunt but he wasn’t rude and your husbands knee jerk was to defend his mother and demand her very own cake of her desired flavour. That’s an issue.
[removed]
I mean, I don’t think this needs a backstory. He had no issues with her calling you a bitch? What a catch
Even not knowing the backstory, your husband still suggested getting a cake his mom would like on his son's birthday.
It really doesn’t matter why he said it any grown person should understand you don’t get to pick someone else’s cake flavor on their birthday
It doesn't matter what was previously said. Your husband should understand, without you telling him, that his grown-ass mother doesn't get to pick your son's birthday cake!
Honestly, though, it doesn’t matter if he knew the backstory- though I’m sure the enmeshment generally involved with parents like this (it’s narcissistic abuse), he has a hard time seeing around the cognitive dissonance built up over a lifetime. 

Your son was in no way disrespectful unless his tone was nasty. The words he chose were as good as can be expected from a 5 year old and I’m so proud of him for speaking up for himself! He should be praised for this!

Your MIL was actively abusing your son and you did a good job protecting him. 

You might Google “narcissist abuse” to learn more. Counseling would help a ton. It’s really hard to deal with personality disorder. Best wishes!
When my goddaughter was about 8 we were buying a birthday cake for my dad. Red velvet. She said, "I don't like that flavor".  Told her it wasn't her birthday so she didn't have a say, it was my dad's favorite. My godchild was a bit entitled when she came to live with us. Thankfully, we managed to nip that in the bud. I would have felt I failed as a godmother if she grew up with ideas like your MIL. I applaud you, OP.
[deleted]
i think you're overestimating how important that backstory is.  any adult with any baseline emotional intelligence would basically intuit that kids are blunt at that age and that he was repeating a lesson he had learned.  the name calling and his reaction to it are very disturbing to me though, is this something that has happened before?
It sounds like Hubs was told by his mother one thing and as soon as he reconnected with wife realized the truth. I think that conversation needs to happen also so the mother can't try to pit the husband against the wife with lies and manipulation.
I think it’s been decided that it’s time. Mil decided it for them when she started name calling and acting like an entitled brat.
Placing it right now!
Party sounds like it'll be extra fun without the emotional vampire MIL present.
Don’t forget the pic of the delicious chocolate cake!! 😋
You are not the only one. I would go scorched fucking earth on any of my family members if they called my wife a bitch - even if, as is NOT the case here, she was being a bitch. Because that’s the priority you shoulder when you get fucking married.
I appreciate that the OP's husband got to have a shift in perspective from all this, moving from "we'll get her a cake of her own" to "no, wait, that's not how the world works." I think that's going to be key for MIL getting over herself, that her son isn't caving or pressuring OP to cave. MIL has probably thrown enough tantrums in her life that people find it easiest to give in and do so out of habit. Here, the contrast is so ridiculous in MIL trying to center herself at a kindergartner's birthday party that it might be the start of Oh Hell No season for MIL. Let's hope.
I like anything with chocolate or strawberries in it! I also usually go for cakes with more filling and less dough, but there are plenty of good bakeries around where I live. Me and my coworkers often get some :)
My oldest son’s best friend had a sibling severely allergic to peanuts. Once every 4-6 weeks, friend would come over eat PBJ, Reese’s,  anything he wanted peanut related and then shower, wash hair, put in fresh clothes and I’d wash his peanut butter clothes. Usually was done when allergic sibling had friend over or other activity.  Your MIL is behaving like a child, we need to get a cake everyone likes is crazy. I don’t even force any of my children to get a cake everyone likes if a sibling is unhappy. Birthday child’s choice, I’m still in shock this is coming from an adult. Also shocked your husband wanted get his mom her own cake even not hearing your explanation. Talk about being raised to please mom especially over his own child. I’ m glad your husband changed his mind but this is still a situation I’d watch in the future. You are NTAH but your MIL is immature and very self centered
I got sober at 43 and for the first few years would get a cake to celebrate my soberversary. The problem was I gained 6-8 pounds every time I did it :(
I do this as well sometimes!! Not every week but some weeks I want it as a treat after work. I'm in my mid 20s and the realisation that I can just do this whenever I want because I'm an adult who earns my own money (and I'm lucky that I can afford it) is still so satisfying to me every time!!! Grandma needs to buy herself a cake and get some of that childlike joy in her life!
Ooof. That type of cake is pretty bad. I hate the waxy frosting. Just know that we’re building character in these kids and the fight is worth it, lol!
What a boring world your MiL lives in if this is the only "acceptable" type of cake..

It's the most normal thing in the world for a kid to love chocolate cake, and a chocolate cake with chocolate ice cream (or chocolate icing, or both) is exactly the kind of dream dessert birthdays are for.
Your son has great taste. I'm right there with him lol
I mean, he’s wrong. White cake is the best 😂 but it’s his day, he gets to choose the damn cake, that’s the law.
So crazy that this retirement age woman wants an apology note from a child, whom she called a brat, who cannot read yet. And the kicker is that it is because this child would like to have a chocolate birthday cake. About to be yet another octogenarian lamenting about how she never sees her spoiled, ungrateful grandchildren anymore.
That’s a lot for a 5 year old. “I’m sorry you don’t know how birthdays work, and I’m sorry I didn’t kick you in the shins when you called my mommy a bitch”
😂😂👍
Maybe if it was in the heat of the moment. 

But he wasn’t present when it happened (obs, otherwise it would be worse that he defended his mom), so that means he heard it sometime after the fact. No matter how his mom presented the story, he should have gone to his spouse and ask what happened between his mom and OP instead of coming in hot. 

Maybe it’s because I’ve been consciously practicing that, but it seems easy to do. I’ve been trying to demonstrate through action for my kids, to get both sides of the story and try to find a solution that way. They’re still young, so I try to show them how different POV can be (kid 1: he did it on purpose! Kid 2: it was an accident!) 

But it’s a lesson learned all around. 
- Gma needs to chill the eff out (message not received, error, bounce back)
- kid knows mom’s got his back, 
- dad needs to get both sides of the story before passing judgement, and 
-  OP, well, keeping working on teaching that little human how to question, have empathy, understanding, and most importantly stand up for himself.
mmm lavender matcha sounds dope tho
I was not prepared for that comparison lol
Both vivid and correct.
MIL should be embarrassed af for 1. arguing with a 5 yo about his choice of birthday cake flavor and 2. being the immature one in that exchange. but of course, she’s not self aware enough for that.
I died at that, my kid is chattering at me about minecraft and I’m holding back snickers at the mental picture you painted.
Whew, this comment went places.
Sounds like my mama! She huffed, rolled her eyes when I asked her not to wear a sparkling crown at my wedding and proceeded to hurl herself down a flight of stairs during the reception so she could be whisked away dramatically in front of a crowd. She then complained that SHE missed out and didn’t get cake and claimed she was mistreated by my stepmom who was an angel the entire time. The best was when my mom described my wedding as “one of the most traumatic and horrible experiences of her life and that I just couldn’t understand how hard it was for her.” sMH.
So she's just selfish.
OMG. Why? SMH.
Correct, but you can only start beef with your 5 year old grandson on special occasions.
Literally had a bad day last week and bought myself a small birthday cake because I felt like it. 

Adulthood is great that way.
Exactly! Recently my mom decided she wanted to make a cake, just out of the blue lol. She messed up and told my dad to pick up cake mix and icing..... without specifying what kind. He bought a combination that only he likes, so he's now stuck having to eat the whole thing lol. Buy mom n I aren't complaining. If we decide we want cake then we'll go out and buy cake. Actually, now I want cake lmao. I'm gonna have to get some tomorrow (it's 11:30pm, I'm not going out now)
WTF.   Get his mom her own cake?  That's  the stupidest thing I've heard all day.
She can suck it up.  Birthday person chooses tge cake.   End of discussion
Yeah I think even before we get to "knowing the context" the flat out calling her that is unacceptable
And she can’t come to the party unless she apologizes to you and your son for calling you unpleasant names. How immature of her.
And she should write a ‘sorry’ letter to your son.
This!! Even if a 5 year old says something a bit blunt, you don’t jump straight to calling the moon a bitch unless there’s something deeply wrong with you. That’s an escalation of nuclear proportions and shouldn’t be tolerated
>Your husband needs to tell his mom

This is SO important - it was a boundary I made clear early on with my parents. For them everything flowed through my mother, so she tried to lean on my wife which put her in a bad spot. So I made it clear that any decisions regarding my family (parents, siblings, etc.) flowed through me and if they didn't like it, take it up with me.
This. If my Mum spoke to my Wife like that, I'd be telling her a few things. Grandma, in this case, is also a hypocrite. She's making demands about someone else's birthday plans, then calls people names when she doesn't get her way. That is the definition of bratty, rude, entitled, and spoilt.
For real. Even without the context his response is an AH one to me. She's a whole-ass adult, if she wants something else she can bring her own damn cake.
I guarantee when MIL went to tell her son how his horrible wife treated her she forgot to mention that part. Sounds like once the husband and wife compared notes and got on the same page they saw things the same way and my guess is that he was then able to see that his mother is being manipulative as well.
It's embarrassing on the husbands part to even suggest that
It just encourages her bad behavior
Probably a trauma response due to growing up with a narcissistic mom… (my MIL is just like the MIL in this story).
His family has probably been doing that his whole life so he doesn't know how very very bad it is.
That was my thought. Does MIL know she’s an adult and could at any time go buy herself cake she likes? Or make it? Or that as adult you shouldn’t call 5yos names? I would let a grandma like that around my kid 
That’s what I do. My nephew has a dairy allergy and his birthday cake is always a vegan carrot cake. 

I HATE carrot cake. Idk man. And add vegan cream cheese frosting and I am OUT. 

But I pretend to love that slice of cake he excitedly hands me. Choking down at least one bite in front of him and then switching plates with my brother when the nephew is distracted (he gets two slices, my nephew gets to be excited he gave his favorite auntie some cake, and no cake is wasted. Wins all around). 

And on the way home I get myself a bundtlet from Nothing Bundt Cakes so I still get some cake. 

When I started this he was 3 and I figured one year I’d tell him no thanks and he wouldn’t remember I always pretended to love the cake. But he remembered. Every year. He’s 7 now. So now I’m stuck because I can’t disappoint my favorite little dude. 

He doesn’t think it’s my favorite though. He knows it’s strawberry because that’s what we have for my birthday.
Get her a chocolate smash cake
And presenting MIL with a cake will put her in the spotlight on your son’s special day. 

Your son is learning a valuable lesson: Keep your important plans secret so that no one can hijack them.
Yeah. Honestly I'm kinda offput by OP saying it would usually be disrespectful.
Literally, like backstory doesn’t matter at all. Even if that event never happened, whatever cake someone wants on their birthday they get. That’s the least they get. My friend got salted egg yolk cake for his birthday, it was the worst tasting thing I had in my life, but damn I don’t care, I don’t need to eat cake anyway lmao.
It’s actually really easy to deal with people with personality disorders! You simply remove them from your life. They’re not worth the hassle and heartache.
I did something similar with a friend lol. It's so satisfying. Thank you for being that person for your son's friend.

My brother dislikes most kinds of chocolate. He used to eat white chocolate, but that was it. My sister and I both had regular chocolate cakes at certain birthdays, and he just had something like chips to eat instead. MIL is an adult and is old enough to suck it up or bring her own cake alternative.
You know she's going to present it to her sewing circle as "my ~~bitch~~ DiL keeps my grandson from me, and the worst point is she's making him a spoiled brat."

Also, it will turn out that the daughter in law called her a bitch because it gets better reactions.
It does!  I love that kind of flavor.  My partner wanted a "London Fog" cake for his birthday last week, which has vanilla cake, bergamot zest cream, and earl gray flavored frosting. He flew back home the next day after a total of three slices were eaten, so I have been having a slice of that every morning with my coffee since. <3 (Also we bought a single slice of triple chocolate for my 8-year-old to have at the party, because she's autistic and doesn't do well with new flavors.  There are solutions if Granny *really* can't stand what the kiddo picked, but denying the birthday child their choice is bonkers.)
And completely hysterical, idk when it died but i found just that the otger day in my shed. It was gross then but damn if it aint funny as shit rn 😂🤣😂🤣 im stuck on a plane rn with screaming kids in front and back of me, the back ons been kicking my seat and throwing toys at it for the whole time weve been in the air....over an hour btw...and i cant explain how bad i needed that laugh. Fuck me runnin.
Sounds exactly like my former friend. She got all pissy because I wanted a chocolate ganache cake for my birthday but she didn't like that kind and ordered a different kind for my birthday. I had to go and buy myself another cake.
Good Lord!  I'm so sorry you have that sort of craziness in your life. I hope you've gone low/no contact.
It was just so horrible and traumatic that she couldn’t make it about herself more sounds like
Yeah. She’s shellfish.

Sorry I just had to
As an adult, I can eat a whole cake and no one can stop me!

As an adult, I can eat a whole cake... and no one can stop me.
Haha, I am a sucker for cakes. Honestly, it's better I don't keep stuff for icing and stuff, because I would take on way too much weight lol.

There was a time I would buy those insanely-sugary cakes from the grocery store... but I got over that phase. I prefer home-made cakes and so far I can keep myself to only a few a year at most nowadays.

Still, my parents would usually make a vanilla or chocolate cake with chocolate icing, while I prefer chocolate cake and vanilla icing about 20 times more... but they got it wrong 90% of the time... Still, it's the thought that counts, but I understand wanting your favorite cake for your birthday, as I regularly didn't get exactly what I preferred.

Even today, people still don't know what I prefer exactly... while it's still super simple. Good luck on your cake shopping haha.
I agree. I’m saying husband needs to tell his mom she can never speak to OP and his son like that again.
Right? My 8 yr boy picked cosmic brownies for his birthday and that's what everyone got! Lol
Not to mention she’s an adult who can buy herself any cake any time she wants. Like, just go buy yourself your cake on your way home, wtf. 

NTA.
Agreed!! People who can’t eat what is served either decline gracefully or bring their own food (folks with allergies and so forth.) what an entitled B to think someone should get HER a cake on someone else’s birthday!
And if she wants a certain cake, since she is a grandmother, I am certain she is old enough to buy or make her own.
Yeah, aside from whatever 'issues' OP's husband might have perceived with their son, he should be able to see how unreasonable and entitled his mother was being.
Someone needing special cake at a child's birthday makes them the spoiled brat(exception of course for dietary or religious requirements)
Agreed. It's weird this 65 year old (I'm assuming she's 65. She sounds like a 65 year old) is expecting a 5 year old to be more.mature and emotionally developed than she is in her big age. Does she always start fights with kids and then expect them to be the adult in response? NTA
It’s actually hilarious. She’s whining about now getting a cake *she* likes at her grandsons FIFTH birthday party. The 5 years ago old was more mature about it than the grown ass woman. Pathetic
Exactly. OP's MIL is acting liking a spoiled child.
It's literal insanity. As a guest at a birthday party you get one small piece of cake and typically that's it. Who cares if it isn't your favorite flavor? Don't like it, don't eat it. MIL needs people to stop catering to her tantrums. 
She can bring her own cake ffs if it's that serious. Its not an allergy. She just doesn't like it. Grow up, MIL.
Do adults forget they can just... Buy cake if they want it? Hell I might do so on my way home in honor of the little dudes birthday.
Get grandma a smash cake and take a picture so everyone remembers when grandma couldn't let a 5 year old enjoy their special day.
Does MIL demand her own custom cake flavor when attending weddings?
How about fuck off. End of discussion. I know that isn't helpful, but it is HIS birthday, and she needs to learn the lesson, not your son. Too bad she has decided to not attend the party but do not give in on this one. Hard as it is. If she's going to get away with this. What's going to be next?
Agree 100%. Even without MIL saying something to son months earlier this is still a situation of birthday person wants x so should get x. I don't care if that means carrot cake when no one else in the family likes carrot cake (I love carrot cake!) or if it means pie instead of cake. Birthday person gets to choose. And that is without adding in the factors that this is an adult MIL pouting and complaining to a FIVE YEAR OLD child!
If my husband bought the MIL a cake after that (suspicious he still will) it would end up inedible in one way shape or form before granny got any, too. Sorry not sorry. Actually, he'd find he should be happier with that than any fallout directly on his head.
Even if the husband didn't get the full story it's not her birthday so she doesn't need a cake.
What’s wild is that adults can eat cake every damn day! Know why we don’t? Because cake isn’t even a top tier desert! This kid doesn’t get to eat whatever he wants whenever he wants. MIL does. That’s why we all agree not to give a shit about cake flavors. It’s a bigger deal to kids because if your buddy chooses a shit cake, you don’t get to eat another one soon. But even then, this kid figured it out. Mom explained it well. And damn MIL could go to Safeway and buy herself a whole cake to bring if she wanted to. That’s just proof that she’s horrible.
I mean, Grandma is an adult, and one of the benefits of being an adult is going to the grocery store and buying a cupcake in any damn flavor you want.
My mom has the same disposition as OP's husband-  she tends to think conflict resolution means the fastest path to sweeping an issue under the rug and doesn't register that by giving the difficult party whatever they want, she's completely sabotaging someone else asserting their boundaries.

It's not *necessarily* (don't know OP's husband so can't make this call) that it's intentionally throwing one party under the bus for "the greater good", it's often just not knowing when "compromise" is an inappropriate solution.  Like he might not see that someone's holding their ground, might just think it's a logistical issue (cake incompatibility) with an easy solve (multiple cakes).  
  
At worst, OP's husband needs to have a come to jesus talk about whose side he's on.  At best OP might just need to point out the behavior a few times and explain to him that he's clearing a path for a snowball that's already rolling downhill.  And that doesn't steer the snowball any, just gives it room to pick up speed.
Well sure, get her own little, fruit cake cupcake. 🥰

But just wait for Nana's spite birthday cake, being a cake you and your son don't like much. Which you can counter by bringing a small cake, or a couple of cupcakes,  that the two of you like as a new tradition. 

When people ask (and they're gonna ask), just tell them the story about how Nana gave you the idea to make sure everyone got what they liked at other's birthdays, rather than picking cake and ice cream the birthday person asked for.



Something my mom did, when you could still bring homemade treats to class, was to make chocolate and vanilla cupcakes for the class. If say there were 20 kids in the class, she made 20 of each, because she knew kids that liked chocolate would snap up the vanilla, before those that liked both had a choice, because their best friend, liked vanilla, if there were only 10 of each. The left overs went to the teachers lounge. 

The same sort of thing is done at many kid's birthdays, with more than enough  of two flavors that everyone gets one they like, before seconds.
The only time I've seen this done was when another child invited to the party was allergic to the cake the birthday child had. Again, this was for other literal children who had an allergy- neither the children nor the parents demanded a different cake.
Does she want her own gifts too?
A grown woman needs her own special cake for her grandsons birthday party, because she doesn’t like the flavor he picked out…but the 5 YEAR OLD is the spoiled brat??


WAT?
Seems to me someone else is used to getting their own way and now threatening not getting a gift after she was in the wrong…!?? Everyone knows bday person picks their cake. And younger children really look forward to what they’re picking out too. Seems she needs to write him an apology letter!!!!!!
Giving too much sugar to the elderly is ill-advised. Go nuclear, maybe, and tell her she’s better off not having cake at all. 😂
She’s also a GROWN ASS ADULT. So what? She doesn’t like the cake at her grandsons birthday? SHE’S being the spoiled one
Absolutely,  except on granny's bday she gets a chocolate cake with chocolate icing!
At a 6 yr olds birthday party, a special separate cake for any guest under 12 with specific dietary requirements would be a kind gesture, if their parents didn't offer to supply something themselves.

A separate cake for a grown adult having a tanty is ridiculous.
We had that rule of birthday person gets the cake they want.  My mother lived to regret that one...my sis (chocolate) and my dad (coconut) were easy...my favorite on the other hand was not (Italian Cream)...layers had cocunut and black walnuts on the batter and they weren't selling black walnuts in the grocery back then...have you ever cracked black walnuts...lol
You do wonder what emotional age mil has. Is she 7 still?
If MIL hates the flavour of cake that much, she can buy and bring her own cupcake to eat at the party or, better yet, just suck it up for a day.  Not OPs responsibility to cater to her tastes....especially when the cake is what the birthday boy wants.  If this was an allergy I would tell OP to make sure there was at least something small that the person could eat while everyone else enjoyed the cake....but for a preference, f\*\*k that.
Lmao it's like a small child getting their own present on someone else's birthday, to not throw a fit.
Actually I think this is a wonderful idea. Get a separate tiny cake for MIL. Make a huge fckn deal about it too. Call everyone's attention to it, sing "Happy Thursday, here's cake!" to the tune of Happy Birthday. Hand her a card with an invoice for her personalized cake and your expectations for what your and your son's cake preferences will be at HER birthday party. And when she calls you out on it you get to say you're just following the example she's setting at her grandson's birthday on how you're expected to behave. 

Er, maybe I just spend too much time lurking r/pettyrevenge lol
Seriously. It’s giving the same vibes as getting a gift for the bratty kid who always screams when he’s not the birthday kid/center of attention.
I mean OP could do it and make a big production about how grandma wanted to make sure she would enjoy the birthday cake so you got her one of her own. She would be *humiliated*!
Right? I’ve literally gotten carrot cake on my birthday (my in-laws somehow thought I liked it but it’s one of the only cake flavors I don’t like) and because I’m an adult I said thank you and ate a slice. I didn’t even expect a cake as it was Thanksgiving/my birthday. I can’t imagine as an adult demanding another flavor at a child’s birthday party.
My family hates cake, so we don't even bother with it for our birthdays...  Ice cream, popsicles, cookies, whatever floats our boat! This MIL would probably twitch, but not a single kid at a February indoor birthday party last year was disappointed about popsicles after pizza!
I'm pretty sure grandma left her name calling out of the story when she complained about how rude his wife and son were. 
>And she can’t come to the party unless she apologizes to you and your son for calling you unpleasant names.

I think OP already disinvited MIL from the party. 

"So I told her “with that attitude you won’t be coming to the party”

I think the chances that MIL will adjust her attitude are very low. So goodbye and good riddance.
I’m guessing he’s spent his entire life catering to his mother. Because a grown woman telling a 5 year old excited about their cake to pick a flavor SHE likes has clearly been an Established Problem. 

Honestly it’s a good sign he came around quickly but he should take over shutting the MIL down from here.
And that’s what you do because you are a caring and kind person. MIL just seems really unpleasant.
Yep. If it’s disrespectful for a kid to say it to an adult, then adults shouldn’t be saying it to kids.
Probably so, but the rest of her group knows the truth. Bless her heart, you know when she gets mad, she puffs up like an old frog. (My grandmother used to say that about her sister. They were close but they fought like cats and dogs even up into their 80s.)
I’m drooling at your cake description. great, now I want cake
What a selfish idiot oh my lord
And also she is not invited and op an son want an apology note off her to
Agreed! 

As a fairly new MiL, I hope I never act entitled the way this MiL did. How rude! 

We had the same rule in our home while my kids were growing up. My husband one year asked for a cherry vanilla cake and frosting. However, the only person who ate it was him...🤷🏼‍♀️
Seems MIL needs to retake kindergarten and learn how not to be selfish and entitled, too
Lol..sorry.  I was agreeing with you.  These  MIL posts make me look like an angel, lol.
I'm going to shine my gold wings  :)
Looks like you get cake too.
How about she never speaks to them period.
Happy cake day!
Happy cake day.

I also agree on both counts!

I don't like cake much. So I simply don't eat the cake. It's a no brainer. MIL needs to get over herself and apologise to OP and her son.
Who thinks about the cake at a kids party before going? Or any party?  I cant wait to have grandkids, i still have time but id like to think id want  to buy the best  cake that kid wants!  I just dont get it
Cosmic brownies sound like something you might get from a dispensary. :)
Oh, that sounds good....you wouldn't have any leftovers, would you...?
as someone who doesn't like cake tell you kid thanks for the idea hes smart
Yeah, I'm confused. WTF is her problem, just go buy yourself a cake! The kid can't do that.
That's the best part about being an adult, the ability and money to by the treats YOU want.

Everyone else can go suck on a carrot. That jumbo bag of treats is curated to fill my needs.

NTA. Good parenting, OP
Seriously! My bestie has been T1D since she was seven. Should could never eat cake at birthday parties. She didn't stomp her feet and demand that no one else have cake either. She either brough something she could eat or skipped the cake. It wasn't a big deal.

It's a big deal here because MIL is MAKING it a big deal.
I used to be allergic to chocolate, so at every birthday party I went to, my mother brought a big lemon cupcake.

There is no way in hell that I would consider asking the host to change the cake flavor so I could eat it.
I’m deathly allergic to peanuts and tree nuts - I was/am never able to have any birthday cake at parties bc of possible cross contamination. Of course as a kid (and honestly as an adult) it sucks to see everyone eating cake while you can’t have any but it was something I got used to. My mom never thought of giving me something to bring or giving me a treat when I got home lol from now on I’ll have to have a special treat aka a cookie when I get home
Agree here, instead of asking what was going on his default was to insist on getting his mother something else? Guaranteed this isn't the first slight like this 
And this should only apply if you are a child attendee of another child's birthday. Adults with dietary requirements should know to provide their own alternative or just not take a slice.
Make special hedgehog shaped chocolate cake with chocolate buttercream and chocolate buttons to represent the spines. 
Granny we made this especially for your birthday!
I'm amazed at how many people have cakes they don't like! No wonder I'm overweight! 🤣🤣🤣
Mmm yummmm
That's what I call a good birthday
That sounds good. More for him! 🤭
Holiday gift book idea for MIL: 

# [All I Really Need to Know I Learned in Kindergarten: Uncommon Thoughts on Common Things](https://www.amazon.com/Really-Need-Know-Learned-Kindergarten/dp/034546639X/ref=sr_1_1?crid=2V35DS3KK8W6O&dib=eyJ2IjoiMSJ9.75f6VjrkIT7XQlZ0pE0dRBW27vkKKxO1cGrXnOzO0LT2L-dW_iuZ3F_mDw9Se8Fjt6yr5WsLdAbxMer4GCBOlhDIPg92yA4dBEKMaD3iJ_lrNgQC2-54EYsip7_9o7RJh_cCTjIW9wtniAg9JIjVy8OArtMNuDaOi2hU-F7JWXQ-v1ObVSamzvWZps8wuWjNbflBdV4OiO1ajR-AOR-UlLaVSX_kXRGU6kXeEUtLDKw.MftSI-8Dpxel6hOM12hINc5ttWP6IMrHIIYYc7SI0ew&dib_tag=se&keywords=everything+i+learned+in+kindergarten&qid=1728082676&sprefix=everythng+I+leaned+in+k%2Caps%2C178&sr=8-1)
They definitely make me thankful for my mother in law
Ahhh, sorry for my confusion! Ha.
Me too. I never interfered with things with the kids or called my son-in-law disrespectful names!
Lolol me too friend 🧡
Are you my MIL?  Because she really does have golden wings.  I love her so much!
Thanks!
I have a six y/o grandson, and Nanny will get him ANY flavor he wants. He’s my grandson and I’d do anything for him, anything at all. I’m just there to enjoy his birthday celebration with him! It has anything to do with what I like or don’t like!! This Gma can skip the party if she wishes, but it’ll be noticed, and remembered!
Someone who's desperate for free food. If she likes a different kind of cake she should go out and buy herself some.
My mom can't eat chocolate and she still would not give a single fuck if my 7 year old's birthday cake was chocolate upon chocolate because she's a grown up and can handle just skipping dessert if there's nothing that appeals to her. Imagine that! lol
My boys LOVE strawberry cake. My MIL is allergic to them. She would never make a fuss about but ofc we get another, different one. Two cakes are always better then one 😂
My kids and I have a lot of food and chemical sensitivities so we don't ever eat store bought cakes, and rarely eat food that other people prepared. If my kids can figure out how to enjoy a party without being able to eat the food, this Grandma should be able to figure out how to be ok! We don't do themes either, but the kids can pick whatever flavor they want, and nobody has ever complained about the lime, coconut, strawberry/blueberry, peanut butter, or any of the other unusual flavors the kids have picked. It's a cake. If you don't think you'll like it, just don't take a piece!
Because you will be a normal loving Grandparent ❣️❣️☺️
Many 5 year olds do appropriately. Adults who do things like this shouldn’t be tolerated.
They are what you crave AFTER visiting dispensary 😂😂❤️
Little Debbie brownies, I think.

  
[https://www.target.com/p/little-debbie-cosmic-brownies-6ct-13-1oz/-/A-14996408](https://www.target.com/p/little-debbie-cosmic-brownies-6ct-13-1oz/-/A-14996408)
If they had a strain at the dispensary called cosmic brownies I'd have it all the time 
Cosmic brownies were my favourite childhood snack
Yes! get Grandma, her own "SPECIAL" brownie, for the occasion!!
Little Debbie makes them.
🍄👀
Screw that, it's simple to make. Most dispensary brownies are not very potent. Once got one that was supposed to be 8 servings after waiting for it to kick in. I ended up eating the whole thing and never did feel buzzed. My homemade ones are a lot stronger. (Cheaper to make too)
This is 💯 what I thought they were and was hoping the 'child' was 18+ 🤣
Your kid wins. Cosmic Brownies are chef’s kiss👌. I hope you had leftovers.
Cosmic brownies, yum and yea!! Fun and happy for everyone save some for grandma she'll get happy again
What, pray tell, is a leftover brownie? I think it must be some mythical creature.
If it's what I think they are talking about, they are Little Debbie brownies. With sprinkles on them. 

  
[https://www.target.com/p/little-debbie-cosmic-brownies-6ct-13-1oz/-/A-14996408](https://www.target.com/p/little-debbie-cosmic-brownies-6ct-13-1oz/-/A-14996408)
I've gotten a pizza size chocolate chip cookie for my birthday instead of cake. If anyone objected, I didn't hear about it.
1. buy multiple boxes
2. open boxes
3. remove brownies from boxes and individual wrappers
4. discard boxes/wrappers
5. stack brownies artfully

cake
This is exactly why it's just 'birthday dessert' at my house! The last few birthdays (not including mine because I'm a sucker for carrot cake, haha), I've made peanut butter cheesecake, blueberry pie, and homemade cherry cheesecake ice cream.
My boys didn't like cake so I always made rice krispy treats in the shape of a cake for them. One of my girls didn't like cake but loved frosting, so she got icing shots. The birthday kid always picks the dessert, that's part of the celebration of their birthday!
Her problem is that everyone should cater to her, and everything should be about her. Obviously. 

As someone with grandkids I just can’t imagine behaving like this.
She doesn't care about the cake. She cares about the event being tailored to her needs. In her opinion, having a second cake for her is probably way better than if they had agreed to changing the flavor (because someone is sure to ask about having two cakes, and what a great opportunity to show off how much they cater to her). 

I know this type of person. Everyone else's special day has to include a bit of specialness for them, too.
Especially at the full grown age of being a grandparent and no longer having dependents to raise or fund.
Unfortunately, it sounds like grandma is not an adult, but rather a toddler in an adult body!
My husband was allergic to peanuts. At an event he took a bite of cake and it has peanut butter in the frosting. Fortunately, he was prepared, but that isn’t always the case. I saw his lips start to swell and it scared the hell out of me. Better to be safe than sorry.
I was just thinking the same thing! I’d eat pretty much any flavor of cake unless it was something beyond weird like steak, pickle, or herring.
Right! 

I'll even have a bit of fruit cake. Not because it's really cake (it isn't), but because it has cake in the name.
I’ve never encountered a frosted cake I didn’t like. 😳
This sense of humour and all the cakes. What a life! 😎
Half the cake went bad before he was able to finish it. 🤷🏼‍♀️
She needs a Miss Manners  book too.
Thanks for this! I know quite a few people this would work for.
Loved that book
Same here - my MIL is an angel walking among us compared to the harpies on here...
Me too. I have an amazing MIL and I would do just about anything for her if she asked
Hell, they make me thankful for my EX MIL lol
Same. These posts really put into perspective how lucky I am to have my MIL.
That's the only thing about my exhusband that I miss...his mother is the best. She went a little nutty after we had babies but she was a first time grandmother so that's kind of expected...
My ex-mil was an enabler to her son, but she was good to my kids, and she certainly never called me a bitch.
Grandma is cutting off her nose to spite her face.
Awww such a good Nanny🥰 its precious.   Remembered and she will be forgotten.  My mom is 93 and to this day , even though she us in assisted living, so involved in her grand kids AND agreat grandkids lives.  The older ones are also so involved with her, taking her out of there , to places, calling her ,etc.  that woman will die alone, her choice . You will be surrounded by by love as well !
😆😆😆 mom, is this you 

Jks, honestly, you sound exactly like my mother. When my oldest turned 3, he decided he didn't like cake anymore, so my mom was like OK what dessert do you want. Anything you want, anything at all and Nan will get or make it for you.
I would make our granddaughter any flavor cake, any flavor icing, even if I'm allergic to the ingredients. It's her special day! Not mine! I would never ask for a substitute to please me. These entitled-acting women kill me. Our granddaughter is our world! If anyone needs a new Granny, come see us in central Kentucky! We will adopt all y'all 🥰
Nah, she thinks she's the star of the show
Yes like any adult would just eat some ice cream if it was served also or a cookie if they didn’t like the cake flavor. Or just enjoy the birthday chaos then go home & eat whatever. Giant entitled AHs
Yes, but you do this out of love. Not because she's demanding an other cake.
I hope 🥰🤩😄
Haha last time I smoked I woke up the next morning realizing I had eaten an entire (new) box of Twinkies. The empty box was just lying on the counter. I guess when I’m high I have no shame :(
Mannnnn do how bout a new Mandela Effect I came across last weeks says that cosmic brownies nvr had a line down the middle of them?!?! Ummm yes they always have! Lol so sick of these Mandela Effects with their diff timeliness shenanigans! 🤣 completely altering the way things always were
but sometimes, you have a local baker that does infused cosmic brownies and everything is pretty ok for awhile (4-8 hours lol)
Mmmmmmmm. They look quite nice.
At the dispensary near me they do but it not called “cosmic brownies” for copyright reasons I’m sure, but they look the same and they are, in fact, delicious.
The only thing worse than a brat is a high brat.
True, true...but cosmic brownies just sound so GOOD!
I have a recipe that asks for leftover chocolate. Oh how I laughed.
I've heard of them. Personally, I have never seen one outside of a controlled environment.
Not sprinkles. Like tiny, generic M&Ms.
I always went with cheese cake or ice cream cake but im so excited to do the cosmic brownies (I love regular brownies but something about those cosmic ones)
My sister did that with donuts when she got married!
They also make a good foundation if you ever find yourself in the position of having to make a Minecraft cake.
It's just that by step 5, the brownies have, well, ummm, disappeared.
My husband universally wants me to make him an ~~asshole~~ APPLE pie.

Edit: uh wtf! 🙄 No assholes were harmed in the making of these pies! 😂
I have son who doesn’t like cake. We have had donuts, pancakes, chocolate chip cookies.timtams. Anything but cake.
cheesecake or ice cream cake are my go to but damn this is such a good idea and my birthday is next month so now im excited
Icing shots👏🏻 fucking genius oml I’m getting so many good ideas 😭
Ooh! Terminal case of Main Character Syndrome? People like that are exhausting,  and I try to stay away from them. Sounds like a sorry-arse excuse for a grandparent!
Ugggghhh. Yea, I have one of those. I like to pretend she does not exist. Makes me happier that way.
Can we just chat about cream cheese icing for a moment? Name a more perfect invention.

Next time freeze 🥰🤭
Same. My MIL is absolutely adorable & my kids girlfriends all like me so far, so I think I'm doing OK.
Sorry …😂😂I read that as “hair-pies”😂😂
Mine too.  I just love her.
My mother-in-law took a swing at me after assaulting my husband on Christmas and was dragged away by my father in law screaming obscenities while my hubby was calling the cops.  Huge family get together. Super awkward.  She was generally only slightly less awful on the regular. She passed during the pandemic and I can't say I've regretted her not being at any of the family gatherings since.
My mother in law died about a decade ago and I really miss her. :(
Same. I miss mine. She passed away a few years back. But she welcomed me with open arms and lots of love.
My MIL is an amazing woman. I refuse to call anyone mom other than my own mother. But, I would be honored to call her mom, too. However my husband calls his best friend's mom, mom as well. I do believe I told her where to go, how to get there with colorful directions and haven't spoken to her since 2019 nor have my kids. She was like the MIL in this situation. On a lighter not, I am a fraternal twin. I love chocolate, but my brother would cry anytime the cake had chocolate so to make us both happy, my family got vanilla cake for him, and chocolate for me. Only reasonable excuse to have different flavors or combined birthdays.
I seriously thought mine was going to try to steal mine😂 she's calmed down now though Lol
She knows that Mommy's Precious Boy won't let her suffer any consequences for her behavior.
I accept the compliment 💕
I did that with Oreos once.  My friends told me I was eating each Oreo in one bite.
The box was probably empty when you bought it.
Won't you see the ones with the line are the smaller version, the ones with out a line are the bigger ones
But it might just chill her out a little!, but yes..your point is true.
Cosmic Brownies are a Little Debbie snack cake. You can buy them at any store. My kids love them but they're no where near as good as a home baked brownie, to me anyway.
I've made a Minecraft server...
LMAO love that autocorrect!! Yep, my husband is the blueberry pie.
*very* different flavor profile!
My husband always wants a homemade custard pie!
OPs MIL needs to get asshole pie. What would asshole pie be anyway? Pie crust filled with pudding made from cloves and Tom Collins mix maybe.
My ex husband IS an asshole pie
I made a giant sugar cookie for one of my kids once, with rainbow sugar. They loved it.
Big Cake is repressing the true successor , ice cream cake. Cake had it's day, but it's obsolete now. We don't eat hot dogs in clear jello anymore either. Come to the True Choice, and resist the Big Cake propaganda.
I typically have a pumpkin pie or pumpkin cheesecake from Costco now that I am 60 and my birthday is at the end of September!  I have never liked cake. I do like brownies so I have had them before and a donut tower!

Ice cream is my favorite and I love to make the layered ice cream cake but without any actual cake in it!  I use a Oreo cookie crust in the bottom of a sheet cake pan with a layer of Jamoca almond fudge, chocolate chip mint, and pralines and cream.  In between the layers is typically Hershey’s syrup, caramel, and sometimes crushed almonds.
I read it as herpes:/
Hair piece (with an accent)
Thank you for ruining pie! r/ruinedmyday AND r/angryupvote
I’m so sorry for your loss. My amazing MIL died a couple of years ago, right when we had our first child. Very few people understand how devastated you can be to lose a woman like that when the tropes of MILs are generally awful. The world is unfair sometimes!
Hugs from an internet stranger 💞 I lost my mum 25 years ago and I miss her too. I wish she had got to meet the family I have made
{hugs} My MIL died at the beginning of this year and I keep finding the jumpers she knitted for the children when they were small. They’re all outgrown now but I can’t bear to give them away.
Mine died just over two years ago and I miss her so much. I often hear people speak about difficult relationships with their MIL’s and all I can do is brag about the one I had.
Bummer 🙄
I'm sorry for your loss. I had a really great mother-in-law too and don't think I appreciated her as much as I should have.
My twins have always had their own cake. Sometimes they are smaller cakes but even now, they are 22 and we get them each a cake in their chosen flavor.
No hunger like weed hunger!
Hopefully! I’m the kind that gets really anxious w weed. Soooo…
They aren’t that good but us Gen Xers (and maybe others too) grew up eating them as treats in childhood. So a lot it is about the nostalgia. Same with Nutty Bars. Objectively they are terrible. But we have all those memories!
Ummm! I am a baking challenged individual. I cannot bake anything without it turning hard as a brick! Thankfully my spouse can bake like a mothah! In the meantime I’m buying Lil’ Debbie’s!
My husband would also accept blueberry pie. But I've perfected my apple pie and there's no point in messing with it. (I don't like any apple pie -- except mine!)
Have you read/seen The Help? THAT is asshole pie! 😂
I'm so very excited for your loss!
Big Cake hates this one simple trick!
My nana does something similar with the ice cream cake no cake involved just layers of ice cream she even shaped it like a ukulele when I was younger (I had a mamma mia themed birthday)
Baskin and Robbins all the way! Although I do buy their ice cream cakes. it never occurred to me to make one without any cake at all.
AITA for not telling my husband's family that I speak their language?
My husband Peter (29 m) and I (27 f) have been married for about three years. We have one child together and I was pregnant with our second. I’m western Canadian while he is from Germany. We lived in Canada for a long time, but because of inflation moving back to Germany seemed like a better option for us. We bought a nice house in Hannover where Peter is from. 

The day after our flights to Germany we all visited Peter’s family. This was the second time I have seen them (the first was at our wedding). They greeted us and brought us inside of the house, fussing over my son. We had dinner, and soon we left the house, wanting to settle into our new home. We visited Peter’s family often for the next few months. But I had started to realize that they would sometimes speak about me in German. They would make rude comments on my hair and makeup, question my fashion choices, and overall were just very unkind to me. They also said mean things about my pregnant belly which I was already insecure about.

I ended up talking to my husband about this. I told him that I didn’t like the way that they were treating me. I said that I hated how my every choice was judged. He told me that he would talk to his family. 

The next time that we went to his parents house, there were no more mean comments. For about three months it was like nothing ever happened. I gave birth to a perfect baby girl that we named Lilith. Peter’s family was very upset when they heard the name. If you didn’t know, Lilith means “ghost” or “of the night.” We didn’t pick this name because of its meaning, but because it is a name that every girl in my family has had for many years. My middle name is Lilith, along with my moms, my grandma’s, and even my great grandma's. 

For a while I didn’t visit my in-laws. I didn’t want to hear them talk about how I shouldn’t have named my daughter Lilith. But yesterday we saw them again. It was my mother-in-law’s birthday. As soon as we showed up things started to go badly. Everybody wanted to hold Lilith which made my MIL upset because people weren’t paying attention to her and made me overwhelmed. I didn’t want people holding her. I was going through a pretty bad postpartum depression and it was still pretty early to see people. I let people look at her, but declined when anyone asked to hold her.

During dinner I heard my SIL talking to my MIL in German. I heard her complaining about how she couldn’t hold my baby. My SIL even had the audacity to call me, and I quote, “a fat ugly hokey addict.” I turned to my SIL and MIL and told them off in German. I basically said that I have always known what they have said about me, but calling me names was the last straw. I also mentioned how I have known German for almost my whole life. The table instantly blew up. People were yelling at me because apparently this was all my fault. I left with Peter and we haven’t talked to them since. So AITH?


Welcome to /r/AmITheAsshole. Please view our [voting guide here](https://www.reddit.com/r/AmItheAsshole/wiki/faq#wiki_what.2019s_with_these_acronyms.3F_what_do_they_mean.3F), and remember to use **only one** judgement in your comment.

OP has offered the following explanation for why they think they might be the asshole:

 > The action that I took that should be judged is that I didn't tell my husband's family that I spoke their language. The action that might make me the asshole is that I didn't tell my husband's family that I spoke their language for a long time.

Help keep the sub engaging!

#Don’t downvote assholes!

Do upvote interesting posts!

 [Click Here For Our Rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/AmItheAsshole/about/rules) and [Click Here For Our FAQ](https://www.reddit.com/r/AmItheAsshole/wiki/faq)

##Subreddit Announcements

Follow the link above to learn more

---

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose/?to=/r/AmItheAsshole) if you have any questions or concerns.*

*Contest mode is 1.5 hours long on this post.*
And you're living in Germany? Do they really think you wouldn't learn the language of the country where you live? 

They have been extremely rude to you and about you, you are definitely NTA.

I think your husband needed to grow a shiny spine as soon as they started and should have told them off instantly, so he's a bit of an A, or at very least a total wuss.
NTA - Assholes are never wrong. They remain assholes by refusing to ever take ownership of their own words or actions, so they never have to change. They can be as judgmental and insulting as they want because they're right and anyone who challenges them must be at fault. So of course it's your fault that they were insulting you - they couldn't possibly have been in the wrong.

Sorry you married into a family of assholes.
An international wedding in the midst of 2021?
House hunting in the hometown of your husband and you did not at least visit the parents once?
You speak german and this never came up in several years? Not during the wedding, not in phonecalls, videocalls, never?
Your husband talked to them and forgot to mention, that you can understand them?
Sorry, but the story sounds fishy to me.
YTA for making me once again realise most of the posts here are fake. Bad writing skills bro
You got married with overseas visitors in the middle of a pandemic?
This sounds very fake. There are just too many tropes mashed into this.

I cannot imagine a family naming their children Lilith for several generations. Modern day Lilith? Yes. Grandma Lilith? *No.*

I also cannot imagine the family not realising one would pick up at least minimal German to understand just enough to cotton on in the time they have lived there.

Also there are discrepancies. OP says they have been married for **3 years**, yet they lived in Canada for a **long** time? Which is it then? Also, moving **back** to Germany? OP said she is western Canadian, and lived in Canada for a long time. Story is just all over the place.

So I'm calling it. It's fake.
This doesn’t even make sense lol. If you speak German so well, write what they said when you translated it as “a fat ugly hokey addict”, I’m curious.
Yeah, I don’t buy that you’ve seen these people for months and no one ever noticed you speak German especially now after living in Germany for months. You’ve just awkwardly sat around every family gathering where everyone else spoke German and pretended not to understand even though “you’ve known German practically your whole life”. That makes 0 sense, I call BS 

Besides Germans will usually just say stuff to your face, no need to talk behind your back
I have a very hard time believing any of this. The premise simply does not make any sense.
‘a fat ugly hokey addict‘ seems so oddly specific, I can’t even imagine any German saying that. Eine fette hässliche Hockeysüchtige doesn’t sound like anything any German could come up with even when thinking about Canadians.

Edit: YTA
YTA. This is 100% made up.
This in implausible.
Hokey or hockey? I have never heard of anyone being addicted to either
So your husband would just sit there while they were talking shit about you? He never mentioned to them that you actually understand and are fluent in the language?
So you married a German and never told him you can speak his language FOR YEARS I call fake Noone would do that.
YTA because this story is questionable and honestly I doubt it’s real. 

If it is real, then ESH. What they did is unacceptable, but how were you able to hide for so long that you spoke the language?
Why hasn't your husband been standing up for you before you asked him to?
I'll take made up scenarios for 500...
So you hid the fact you knew their language the first time you met them at your wedding? And your family and your husband all went along with it? And they never asked? I’m not buying it. If I can’t believe you, YTA.
There’s no way on earth this story is real. If you spoke German, your husband would have known. Give me a break!
Make your story sound more real next time.
How come your husband never told them that you speak excellent German? I don’t think this story is 100% true
If this is a real story, ~~NTA~~ (it's hard to believe a whole family wouldn't know their DIL spoke their language all along when their fluent son with whom they moved to their country did. They wouldn't know DIL carried on paying bills, purchasing groceries, going to doctor's prenatals, and generally integrating normally?)

Hearing people when they talk can't make one an asshole. Holding your tongue for awhile hearing people blatantly insulting and hating you in your actual presence can't make one an asshole. Eventually having enough and having other people hear \*you\* can't make one an asshole. I hope next time you throw hands :-)

**EDIT**: Wait! You guys! Maybe it is true and there's a good reason OP was called a "[hokey](https://www.collinsdictionary.com/us/dictionary/english/hokey) addict" and then the revelation of being a fluent speaker caused a whole scene! It would mean **ESH**! Check it out:

If OP did speak German for almost her "whole life," married a German immigrant, met the parents, had one child, got pregnant with a second child, chose to emigrate to his nation/city where his family still lived, bought a house, settled, had the child there, now had *two* young children who are obviously going to be raised speaking German, still does speak German *but has never, not once* tried to speak to/signal to/greet/communicate with her spouse's family in their native language, now her primary national language and that of her children ...

That would mean she was by act and/or omission intentionally trying to give the impression she could not speak their language ... but meanwhile sitting there eavesdropping/spying on what they were lead to believe was private communication not comprehensible to her over a whole period of time! That's a super weird thing to do, and would make me feel violated in some undefinable way and resentful too!

They're still shitbags, but so would she be. No wonder everyone got all angry! Lol, this is fun, what a bunch of dirtbags!

To those saying, "I tried to speak German while there but they preferred to switch to English! My German clearly isn't good enough to be more useful than the typically proficient English spoken there!" You tried and were redirected, and few of you probably invested babies into their society. OP actively and/or passively cultivated the impression of herself as being someone who couldn't understand what people around her were saying when she could. That's a whole, weird, long-game of some sort non-assholes wouldn't play.
Can we just rename this sub as r/creativewritingforkarmafarmers
Hang on here. Your hubby speaks German, he knows you do too and you don’t speak German with the in-laws? That, is weird. Your hubby not telling his own mother you speak German is very weird. Your hubby knowing his mother is talking shit about you doesn’t tell his mother you understand everything she is saying?? This sounds fake af. I’m going to go out on a limb here and say you are all kind of AHs here!! Holy smokes!
This story is FAKE for sure. You don’t move to Germany with a German husband and meet the family and not once let on that you speak fluent Deutsch. Give me a break. It’s a huge part of showing respect.
How does one say "fat hokey addict" in German?
I'm having a hard time believing this story. If you're living in Germany, where German is spoken everywhere, how could the parents not know you speak German? Weren't you ever out in public, like at a restaurant or something? How did they think you were functioning in German society without knowing the language? It doesn't make sense.
Seems that OP is either a liar or a person with psychological issues. To have kids with a German and don't inform him or his relatives about speaking German. Even if her husband knew about proficiency of OP in German how come he didn't tell his relatives? The only way if she asked him to hide this fact. That is a red flag about personality of OP. So frankly speaking I have more sympathy towards German relatives in this situation.
fake as fuck
I have my doubts.
this sounds made up. sound like some american drama not really germanlike 🤦 also why wouldnt you tell them the first time you met them that you apeak german?
This story is 100% made up
So you got into a long term relationship, moved to the country your partner is from, got married and had a baby together and yet NO ONE knew you spoke their language? I call bs
Hokey? A hokey addict?? 

No self respecting Canadian would misspell hockey, so either OP is not Canadian, or she actually meant “hokey addict,” which doesn’t make sense, or **this entire story is a fabrication.**

And then there’s the fact that OP claims she somehow managed to keep her ability to speak German a total secret from her husband’s entire family for ***YEARS.*** Yeah, no. 

Can I call bullshit? I want to call bullshit…
Ridiculous story surely you would have spoken to them in German at the wedding if you could....nonsense!
I don't understand how you lived in Germany for months and they didn't ever hear you speak German? That's confusing.
You win the reddit fiction award of the day!
So .you met a German guy, dated a German guy, got engaged to a German guy, married a German guy, had two kids with a German guy, met the German parents of the German guy (at least at your wedding), moved to Germany and it never came up in conversation that you speak German?  I find that incredibly odd.
There's no way this is a real story, and it's not even original. The same "family didn't know I speak their language" story is posted time after time. 

The story isn't even believable. That you were in Germany, surrounded by Germans, and somehow never spoke the language in front of anyone is absurd. The fact your husband never mentioned it to your family is absurd.

As for moving country because the inflation rate was slightly lower... come on.. 

YTA for posting fake stories.
This story is so obviously fake. For the reasons everyone else has listed, but also because you claim MIL’s birthday was yesterday and you WERE going through a pretty bad postpartum depression. So yesterday you were dealing with PPD but all of a sudden today it’s magically cured? Yeah, no.
YTA for making this up and Iam too for finishing
YTA, if it is true why have you intentionally hid your being fluent in German for several years whilst living there and being married to a native.
What kind of addict do they think you are? And Germans have a word for hokey?
You chose not to speak to people in their own language even though you could but instead decided to effectively eavesdrop on their conversations?

YTA
ESH
They were incredibly rude.  But why weren't you speaking to them in German from the get go? Married to a German, meeting his German family, in Germany and you're speaking to them in English?
NTA but are you telling me that the first time you met your husband's family was at your wedding? now I'm not saying that you are to blame, but maybe you should have gotten to know your in-laws first before you decided to marry into the family. I hope your husband remains on your side cos your in-laws are assholes.
YTA for a weird fake story. Apart from everything else already discussed in the comments, like the bizarre supposed insult (that has no real translation in German, at least none that a German family would use): Why would a German family have a problem with the name Lilith? 
They could maybe worry a little bit about people pronouncing it wrong (since the -th sound is difficult for Germans) but other than that nobody would care. It’s a name that has zero baggage here and most people would just assume it’s an odd spelling of Lilli or Lily (which is relatively common)
This is so silly and embarrassing for you.
This post is wild...

If I were your inlaws and discovered you could speak German and never told me, I would think extremely less of you as a human being. Someone who lacks empathy and the willingness to connect with your child's grandparents and your husbands family. It's just shocking. You can't control other people's behavior, and you can not change them, but you can control and change yourself. Seems like you made up your mind about this family long before and purposefully withheld communicating with them in their native language or at least giving them the courtesy of a heads up. Almost as if you wanted to catch them saying something negative. How did that aha moment feel? 

Yes, they were rude. Yes, they are assholes but oh my word, so are you. YTA
You never once said guten morgan to the parents or other German family members? or auf wiedersehen? And they spoke English in their home instead of English? And your husband never heard the insults even after you pointed them out? This whole post sounds fishy. And what's a hokey addict? Like the hokey-pokey dance?
NTA obviously, but just curious, why have you never spoken in German to them or shown that you know it? Seems very odd they wouldn’t know you speak it fluently, no?
NTA. I love that your husband didn't tell his family you could understand them. Was this because you asked him to (otherwise he would have)? Or did he decide to let his family FAFO?
YTA
This sounds made up.
If its not, then you sound selfish. Yes it is your baby and you have every right to name her. But if the family feels so extreme about the name, it’s worth a second thought. 
Plus it is really sad that the family didn’t get to hold the baby, you need to think beyond you, that will help with postpartum depression.
It is family’s fault though that they haven’t accepted you yet, they need to communicate better.
I N F O: does german even have a word for hokey? Seems like a rather specific translation.

But as others pointed out already: in all this time you've been in Germany, visited your in laws, you never once conversed in German? No wonder they didn't like you. You couldn't even do a basic conversation with them?

Excuses to all German speaking folk for my broken german:
No "Hi Gutentag, ich bin SeaRip, wie gehts?", no "Oh Schwiegermutter, du bist so eine gute Köchin". 

They instantly started piling on the insults as soon as you entered?

To be honest i'd start calling you names as well if you kept engaging them in English.

Never once did you engage with them in German? 

Yeah no YTA.
They AH for badmouthing you for the past year and there is no excuse for their bad manners.  They should have apologized.  However, YTA also for not telling them you speak German.  Why were you keeping the language a secret from them?  And making them speak English when you're fluent in their language in their country?
NTA but I am wondering why you didn’t greet them and speak to them in German at your wedding or when you first moved to Germany. Also, since you’ve always known German, I assume your family does too. Did they not speak to your in-laws at the wedding in German?
When my Dad converted to Catholicism he wanted to learn everything and do the best he could in his religious ed classes, which had take home tests. He never ever did good in school so also wanted to do really well on these tests because they meant a lot to him.

His religious ed teacher HATED that he kept getting 100% on these quizzes. She spoke fluent German. She wrote “Idiot” in German on his test next to the 100%. Dad asked her after the next class why she wrote “Idiot” on his test because he was clearly NOT an idiot.

She was shocked that he understood written German and instead of apologizing or explaining she asked how he knew German! And he was, like, “Duh. My wife’s father was German, fought in the War…” She still never ever apologized and was more mad at him for knowing German.
I don't think your AITA. You or Peter should have told them the first time they spoke badly of you that you could understand and speak their language. I knew people like that when I used to live in Olsterholz-Scharmbeck. Go about your life with Peter and your daughter.  Either they will get their heads out of their ass or not. That is on them. Enjoy the people who care about you.
a) It is rude to speak in a language that not everyone in the room understands. The only exception is if a person you are talking to does not speak the common language, and you need to translate/take care of their needs. 

b) It is rude to make rude comments about others, especially if you are doing it in a foreign language. You have only seen these people twice. Apparently, they have never asked you if you speak German (First thing my family asked when I introduced them to my future husband was "Can he speak our language?"). 

c) Your husband talked to them, and they backed off for a while. Apparently, he also did not tell them you can understand what they are saying. This would have been a good time to tell them. 

d) After your husband talked to them, you could have started speaking in German. Not doing so was a mistake on your part, but it doen't exonerate your in-laws' rude behavior- you are not a piece of furniture that they can talk over. 

NTA. Your in-laws need a little reeducation. This would not have been a problem if they had been polite, in any language.
Nta. And the reason you're not the asshole is because you haven't written them an apology letter where you profusely apologize for knowing the German language and promise to forget it. For the sake of the open communication that they desire, you will keep them fully updated on what words you have unlearned each week. This week's word is "strawberry." Then every week send a new letter with a new word that you are working on forgetting.
Their treatment of you is inexcusable. 


I have to wonder though, why you nor Peter ever told the family that you speak German OP? It would be such an obvious commonality to share in my opinion. Why wouldn't you have joined in conversation with them in German? What is your and Peter's reasoning for holding it back from them for the last 3+ years? 
Super fake story right? How the post partum depression slips in to the story at the end as a small thing on the side, and the husband doesn’t do anything when he hears his family trash talk his wife, who he knows also understands the language. Sorry I believe most Reddit stories but this doesn’t add up. If it is true: good luck and stay strong.
Why didn't you mention that you speak German? After all, you live in Germany and you've seen each other often. It would be natural for me to say "hey, we can talk to each other in German too!"

That's why I tend to prefer YTA

(What your in-laws did is also wrong)
I was an au pair for a German family for a year. While I never could speak fluently I absolutely understood them about three months in and they’d talk about me while I was in the room and it was not nice. When they came to see me years later we were at a hibachi grill and when the chef put the rice on the grill the youngest said, in German, “mommy that man just threw his food everywhere and made a huge mess!”  I snorted and started laughing and both parent froze. “You speak German?”  “No but I understand it.”  …. “How long have you been able to understand German?”  “I picked it up about three months in.”  They were absolutely silent, im sure reviewing everything theyd said in my presence. Never assume people can’t understand you. NTA.
^^^^AUTOMOD  ***Thanks for posting! This comment is a copy of your post so readers can see the original text if your post is edited or removed. This comment is NOT accusing you of copying anything. Read [this](https://www.reddit.com/r/AmItheAsshole/wiki/faq#wiki_post_deletion) before [contacting the mod team](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FAmItheAsshole)***

My husband Peter (29 m) and I (27 f) have been married for about three years. We have one child together and I was pregnant with our second. I’m western Canadian while he is from Germany. We lived in Canada for a long time, but because of inflation moving back to Germany seemed like a better option for us. We bought a nice house in Hannover where Peter is from. 

The day after our flights to Germany we all visited Peter’s family. This was the second time I have seen them (the first was at our wedding). They greeted us and brought us inside of the house, fussing over my son. We had dinner, and soon we left the house, wanting to settle into our new home. We visited Peter’s family often for the next few months. But I had started to realize that they would sometimes speak about me in German. They would make rude comments on my hair and makeup, question my fashion choices, and overall were just very unkind to me. They also said mean things about my pregnant belly which I was already insecure about.

I ended up talking to my husband about this. I told him that I didn’t like the way that they were treating me. I said that I hated how my every choice was judged. He told me that he would talk to his family. 

The next time that we went to his parents house, there were no more mean comments. For about three months it was like nothing ever happened. I gave birth to a perfect baby girl that we named Lilith. Peter’s family was very upset when they heard the name. If you didn’t know, Lilith means “ghost” or “of the night.” We didn’t pick this name because of its meaning, but because it is a name that every girl in my family has had for many years. My middle name is Lilith, along with my moms, my grandma’s, and even my great grandma's. 

For a while I didn’t visit my in-laws. I didn’t want to hear them talk about how I shouldn’t have named my daughter Lilith. But yesterday we saw them again. It was my mother-in-law’s birthday. As soon as we showed up things started to go badly. Everybody wanted to hold Lilith which made my MIL upset because people weren’t paying attention to her and made me overwhelmed. I didn’t want people holding her. I was going through a pretty bad postpartum depression and it was still pretty early to see people. I let people look at her, but declined when anyone asked to hold her.

During dinner I heard my SIL talking to my MIL in German. I heard her complaining about how she couldn’t hold my baby. My SIL even had the audacity to call me, and I quote, “a fat ugly hokey addict.” I turned to my SIL and MIL and told them off in German. I basically said that I have always known what they have said about me, but calling me names was the last straw. I also mentioned how I have known German for almost my whole life. The table instantly blew up. People were yelling at me because apparently this was all my fault. I left with Peter and we haven’t talked to them since. So AITH?



*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/AmItheAsshole) if you have any questions or concerns.*
In Mesopotamian religion, found in the cuneiform texts of Sumer, Assyria, and Babylonia, lilîtu is a spirit or demon. Lilith means demon it's the name of lucifer wife
NTA. Du bist hier absolut nicht das arschloch. Wieso sind sie denn davon ausgegangen das du kein Deutsch kannst. Immerhin bist du ja auch mit deinem Mann seit 3 Jahrwn verheiratet. Also selbst wenn sie es nicht wussten hätten sie wenigstens erahnen können das du zumindest ein paar brocken deutsch kannst.
So we're going to ignore how unhinged it is to know German the entire time and refuse to speak the language in front of her in-laws? For months? In their own country?

I have no idea what kind of person would do that, and it's why I think this is fake.
Nta and everyone has hit on that.



I will say I find it hilarious that you named your daughter after the mother of demons in hell! If his family is religious, that would absolutely melt them.  Believe that believe inmagic get so upset over that sort of thing
Sorry but this doesn't ring true at all. If you were visiting your German family whilst in Germany and you spoke German why would you never speak it for months and months on end? It makes no sense.
this is fake bc theres no way after multiple interactions with your in-laws they wouldn’t know you speak german. we are supposed to believe your husband also never mentioned it, or just sat there and let his family shit talk you? please. if it’s true, ESH because you and your husband have been deceiving your (also horrible) in laws. if you’re lying then obviously YTA.
Who hides the fact that they speak German, while living in Germany with their German in-laws?  How in in any interactions has this not come up? When you first met them you would think this would be one of the first things they know about.
Yes, why the hell would you visit your inlaws in Germany and not connect with them in the language of the country you're living in?! Maybe you'd have been more likeable.
NTA- You moved to Germany, did they honestly think you didn’t know any German at all or weren’t actively trying to learn it. They made a prejudice judgement and got smacked for their stupidity.
ESH! You’re an asshole but not for this particular instance. Honestly with a 13 day old baby you should have stayed home ESPECIALLY if you weren’t going to allow anyone to hold her or really interact with her other than looking at her. I cant imagine people wouldn’t have understood you staying home for this “event” after giving birth less than 2 weeks ago. Your in-laws also suck bc it seems like they haven’t liked you from the get go and used their language that they didn’t know you spoke to insult you numerous times, but then here is where you’re an asshole again! You specifically told your husband to keep that information and basically lie to his family that you spoke the same language and have spent god only knows how long basically eavesdropping on their conversations, again they are shitty people for openly talking shit about you in front of you but in a different language but you perpetuated this entire situation by nit being upfront about what languages you speak and comprehend. Your poor husband is stuck in the middle of this shit show you created and I feel bad for him and your kids bc your toxic and seem to thrive off the animosity.
Why would you and your husband never share with his family that you (I assume) speak and understand German?  From the time he was courting you I would imagine he would be so proud to boast to family that you speak fluent (or competent) German.  Something just doesn't seem to ring true.
They are AH for their treatment to you, buy YTA for not sharing that you speak German and force them to speak English all that time, and your husband is a bigger AH for not telling them that you speak German. If your husband also didn’t know that you speak German then you are an even bigger AH overall.
NTA. 
When I lived in Germany I was often spoken about in German in front of me because everyone assumed I didn't speak or understand German. I was an exchange student, and won my exchange place by being fluent. 

The ones who assumed I couldn't understand them and what they were saying about me were too arrogant to grasp this basic fact. I totally believe they assumed OP didn't understand.
The only way you would be the A$$h would be if they had asked you if you spoke German and you told them—no I am assuming that did not happen.  Other than that, I can’t imagine a world in which a sane person should be able to twist that into it being your fault.
No. If they cant at least wait for you to leave and do it behind your back( still not right) then fuck em. Good for you.
You wanted drama, so you lied about speaking the language and eavesdropping to create the drama, yo be the drama queen. 
What they did wasn't nice, but you are not the victim either
What is a “hokey addict?”

They sound horrible. It’s sad when kids need to grow up without extended family, but it’s really necessary in many situations. Also good job saying no to others wanting to hold your baby.
My wife is bilingual and speaks Russian, she always tells me how rude people are when she hears them.

Remember one time we were at a local Hot Springs, the people speaking Russian or a similar dialect were talking about the Asians there like they were the spring monkeys in Japan and how they should be picking bugs from each other's hair.

Just because you know another language doesn't mean people around you don't know what you're saying and shouldn't be a dick.

My all time favourite is a story I read on hear about a guy who knew ASL and dated someone who's brother is deaf. When they all met up the brothers friends were signing to each other about him. One of them noticed the OP in this situation was paying attention and told them to stop. The girl of the group kept going and some derogatory terms about the people who could hear. He signed back saying nice to meet you, I'll see you later when he was heading off. Apparently the girl was mortified.
So you met a German family in Germany, but never spoke German to them even though you can? It really sounds like the author of this fake has no idea how unlikely it is that a German family was just speaking English around the OP all this time. And the OP would also be a weirdo to make the entire family to speak English around her all the time even though she speaks German. Or to pretend the doesn’t understand a word for years.
YTA. It’s incredibly weird that they don’t know that you are fluent in German when you’ve been living there for so long and when you’re married to their son who is a native speaker. It gives me the impression that you haven’t tried to integrate into their family or embrace their culture at all and makes you seem incredibly entitled (cause they cater to you by going out of their way to speak English), which is probably why they are so unfriendly towards you. 
Also, despite the family significance, who in their right mind would name a baby Lilith, who in the Bible was a demon and the handmaiden to the devil?! If I were them, I would criticize that choice of name right to your face, and rightfully so.
Sie sind wütend, weil die Wahrheit wehtut. Sie sind wütend, weil sie sich nicht mehr verstecken können. Sie sind wütend, weil man herausgefunden hat, dass sie wirklich schreckliche Menschen sind. Lasst sie wütend sein. Sie verdienen es, zu implodieren.
NTA - but more importantly, where's your husband in all of this?
My friend beat a homeless man to death and lit a hospital on fire aita for calling him a big meany?
I have been in that situation before haha. My boyfriend is chinese and I'm not. On our second date I literally told him that I went to Chinese school when I was a kid for 6 years. But he never really thought anything of it. So move forward to into 5 years of relationship, I have met his parents, his sister and the whole family. I can totally fully understand what they are saying. I did try to communicate with them but my Mandarin is rusty and it sounds wrong so they just speak English with me. So I just gave up trying to speak Mandarin to them. So during our 5 years relationship, I got accepted into a Chinese company because they saw my resume that I am fluent in 4 languages. And from there, my Mandarin got better especially the intonation. So one day I got a call from my boss on my offday and I automatically speak mandarin to him. My bf is just beside me hearing the whole conversation. After the conversation ended, he just stares at me. He was mad(not that mad) at first but then I say I told you I went to Chinese school before. We didn't communicate in mandarin even though he knows now, it was already too late, its weird to suddenly start speaking mandarin with him. So we just sweep it under the rug about the whole thing.
NTA. They’re rightfully embarrassed for being called out on their horrendous behaviour. Your husband needs to step up and sort this out because they’re HIS family being nasty to HIS wife.

At a minimum, I would refuse to visit them again until you get an apology from SIL and MIL (and anyone else who was talking about you).
Nta

And as a German I feel fremdschämen (second hand embarrassed). I sincerely apologise for my rude Landsleute.

Please look after yourself and let them suck eggs.
Yeah this makes no sense. If she was fluent in German why wasn't she speaking to his in laws in German and how could it never have come up? This is especially true if they were insulting her. So she was just pretending she couldn't hear the insults and then when her husband told them to cut it out he also kept it a secret that she could understand German? He definitely would have said so and she would have reacted on the spot to insults unless they were intentionally hoodwinking the in-laws which is just odd. If it's not fake ESH
YTA. This is not a true story. There is no way that you move to another country where you speak the local language and refuse to do so. And if it is true, you're an anti-social weirdo.
NTA

>He told me that he would talk to his family.

So, your husband failed to mention to them that you understood and speak the language? Did they only badmouth you while Peter was out of the room? Like:

>During dinner I heard my SIL talking to my MIL in German. I heard her complaining about how she couldn’t hold my baby. My SIL even had the audacity to call me, and I quote, “a fat ugly hokey addict.”

*Where was your husband during this?!* Not your fault at all, they're being rude host and family. If anything, they owe you an apology. Even your husband owes you an apology for not handling this properly to protect you.
YTA - and so are they. They're assholes for treating you so badly, but you're an asshole for being shady by keeping your knowledge of German a secret. I guess so you could spy on them? That makes you untrustworthy.
Good for you! I had a similar experience with my Mex ex husband. His family used to talk alllll kinda of trash about me, right in front of me. But I never let on. Always wondered how it would have felt if I'd have called them out, and I never did. We've since divorced.

 But I read this, and it is every bit as.wedsome as I had ever dreamed. Thank you for sharing!!
NTA the question is, why are they talking like that during family gatherings where your assumingely fluent husband also is.
Your husband is TA. Why has he not reeled in his family’s cruelty?
How stupid are they? You mention that everything was perfect for 3 months. You lived there for a time before that, and then you had your baby and you didn't visit them "for a while." I don't know how long you've been living in Germany total, but it sounds like it could easily be 5 months or probably more. 

Even assuming you didn't speak it before, at some point, you were going to start picking up German. If these clowns had 4 brain cells to rub together between the lot of them, they would not be doing this after you've lived in the country for a while. You are NTA.
I typically don't comment on these, but I had to say NTA! My son (23) can speak 4 languages, English as his first. He was working at a grocery store when he was in highschool and two women asked him a question in perfect English. He answered them, but they didn't like his answer. They were asking about the availability of something and he said it wouldn't be there until the next truck came. They immediately started speaking another language calling him all kinds of horrendous names and basically blaming him for what they wanted not being on the shelf, so he responded that he understood what they were saying in the language they were using, then listed each other language he speaks in the respective language he said he spoke. They went and got a manager and said "That boy just cussed us out in French!" My son replied "Actually I just told you which other languages I can speak, but unfortunately I have not learned French yet." The manager just kind of snort laughed and said "He couldn't have, he doesn't speak French" and shrugged. They left thoroughly embarrassed. If they had been speaking German, I'd ask if they were related to your in laws.
NTA

I would have loved to be in the room when you settled the score! Good Job!!

Once had a Spanish friend from Spain. He looked like every other white boy in the school. You can never judge a book based on its cover.
NTAH they were rude and Lillith is a beautiful name. Come back to Canada.
I mean NTA for what you are asking regarding insults. But you knew German entire time and you have made everyone around you speak you in English instead? That seems kind of rude expecially around older people. Surely you use German in work and with your friends and everyone else if you live in Germany?
 No, you’re the Bad Bitch! Good for you! Definitely NTA
NTA, tell your husband that they will never see your children ever. He can see them, but they will not be a part of your life.
NTA. Thank you for finally calling them out. They know now that you won’t deal with them and their catty games.
“Yes you’re the asshole for not telling them that YOU understand that they can talk shit about you” MAN listen 😂😂😂 THEY are the assholes for talking shit about you, whether you understood the language or NOT. Fuck outta here with that stupid mentality they’re trying to impose on you that you’re the issue.
NTA  but your husband is for letting them trash talk about you time and time again. He should have shut it down the first time it happened.
[removed]
[removed]
[removed]
Or the mother tongue of your husband?
Because OP's Husband is German and they knew he knew the language, I bet this was behind his back.
I swear half the posts on this subreddit is from people that have husbands/wives that enable their shitty family to talk shit about them.
Seems rather odd, that after a few months the started calling her names, but didn't know she knew German.

Did she really not ever speak German to the Germans in Germany?

Like how much of an AH is she that she forced them to communicate in a secondary language?

>Do they really think you wouldn't learn the language of the country where you live?

My wife's family has been in our country for over 50 years and half of them never learned the language. It really depends.
> Do they really think you wouldn't learn the language of the country where you live? 

That happens *very* often with anglophones. They imagine that immersion makes language learning automatic or at least easy and it doesn’t. It gives you much more occasions to practice so it’s faster but it’s not easier.

And many people will flee any occasion to learn the language. Many of them turn bitter at being isolated from the society around them and blame the locals for their isolation. Locally we call them angryphones.
>I think your husband needed to grow a shiny spine

My read of OP's post is that she spoke to him and he did. What am I misreading?
> And you're living in Germany? Do they really think you wouldn't learn the language of the country where you live? 

Happens a lot more than you think.

Especially since English is pretty widespread in Germany.
Good point. These people are rude, arrogant, nasty, and yet also stupid.
God bless you if you think everyone can learn German in a couple years 
[removed]
You know, I told my husband literally the same thing the other day about arseholes never being wrong. And that no matter what I said, and done that they point the finger in someone else’s direction if someone points out That they are arseholes.

As for OP I seriously love that she’s been with her husband this whole time and could understand what they said. Just kept quiet and never called them out on the nastiness before to their face. I’m just glad that when it came time to defending yourself in regards to your parenting style and whether or not they are allowed to hold your child that you put them in their place because no one gets to make that decision for you. It is something that only you and your husband get to decide.
I had something similar happened to me. My husband & his family are Nicaraguense while I'm like, SUPER white. Had absolutely no clue I spoke Spanish (always surprises people, it's usually funny). But yeah, his family said super awful things about me & when confronted, they doubled down. His dad said he was "taught to speak his mind" (sure, pal. I met his dad, husband's grandfather, & this is bs but whatever). 

But I also live in CA so this actually happens a lot where people will just be saying the rudest stuff because they think I don't understand till I clap back & then it's all *surprise pikachu face*. I don't know why but people seem to be way more inclined to be assholes if they don't think you can understand them.

OP, you ate NTA but your husband's family sure is. They thought they could get away with being rude thinking that you didn't know the language. That's on THEM cause they would NEVER have the balls to say any if that if they thought you knew.
Same thing happened to me but all in English they did not even try to hide it.
[removed]
Same with me, my toxic SIL and even my husband of 10 years are mad at me for my reaction to their disrespect. Been over 3 months, and they only fixate on my "violent" reaction of slamming the door and saying "fuck it" to them disrespecting my mom, I, my sister, and my sister's husband (BIL). Husband supports them. #ICantEven....
Besides OP's husband he's 😎 right?
He did talk about it to his family but they are assholes afterall
NTA - that family doesn’t deserve you. 
>NTA - Assholes are never wrong

This is brilliant! I am so stealing this!!!
OP is the Goddess of the Day!   On top of being rude, insulting and judgmental they are incredibly stupid.   Who would think a woman would be married to a German man, move to Germany and not start learning the language?   Being fluent was just icing on the cake.
Nailhead, meet hammer
This is so good, I am saving it
LMAOOO Preach!!!
Also, as much as it’s nice living near a supportive family, it’s more stressful living near arseholes like them! Move away OP! Germany’s big enough to get away from the crazies!
This reminds me of an incident that happened to a friend of mine in college at UNC-Chapel Hill (in USA).  Warm spring day and he was laying out getting some sun and these 2 women sit down on the grass nearby.  They were talking in German to each other grading and commenting on every guy that walked by.

They had no idea Rob spoke German.

After about 30 min Rob asks them in German what time it was.

They freaked because he heard everything they said.

Sorry you are going thru this OP...people will say the worst when they think you can't comprehend and then when they get caught they blow a gasket.

You aren't the AH but boy your in laws sure are.
I weirdly really needed to hear this, so thank you
My best friend’s mother is German. He was born in the states but was partially raised in Germany. He has lived there for the last 15 years or so and I have visited him there. I love the country. 

We met 25 years ago in the US working nights at a call center. I was on a line that served the UK and cause he is extremely fluent in German he naturally was on a line taking support calls From Germany. My callers were generally very easy to deal with and usually very pleasant and polite. His on the other hand were very frequently rude, pushy and arrogant. He loved Germans but after one particularly hard call about 6 months into working together he turns to me and says “that country is nothing but a tapestry of assholery”. 

It’s a line I’ll never forget.
And EVERY female in her family was named Lilith despite this name being controversial for ages so the edgy name is actually very dear to her.
[deleted]
Well, it depends how confident the OP is about her German abilities. A lot of people lack the confidence to speak a second language, and I am willing to bet that the German in-laws all spoke English. It's easier to understand a language than to actually speak it - especially if the audience seems to be bunch of jerks. There two ways around that hurdle - alcohol or anger. The OP picked #2
[deleted]
and isn’t Lilith, biblically, the mother of demons? bit of an odd name to give a baby, especially for generations 
The husband also apparently corrected the family about insulting her prior. 

Assuming the husband wasn’t personally listening; it would be obvious she knew German if they only insult her openly in German.
I mean how would you even say that in German without sounding weird? Hokey? Really? I call BS
"Hockeysüchtige" doesn't sound natural. 
"fetter, hässlicher Hockeynerd/Hockeyfreak" maybe. But it wouldn't make sense to translate that to "addict" ...
Lol. I thought Germans were more reserved but I lived in other European countries where it's true they don't bother speaking behind your back; they lay it all out in front of you with no filter whatsoever.
Yup I’ve lived with Germans and they won’t spare your feelings. 

Also you’ve never reacted to anything they say in German? My Spanish is poor but even I react if my MIL says something funny or obvious.
Also when Peter spoke to them earlier about saying horrible things, how did he explain  it? He would have had to gone out of his way not to bring up the fact she understood what they were saying.
For me, it's the idea that inflation in Canada is too high, so they come to Germany and buy a house because it's cheaper! Real estate here is ridiculous and they have no chance of getting a mortgage fresh back from abroad with only one income.
That is interesting - I did not know that Germans were this forward - not that there is anything wrong with that just interesting 😊
Yep, someone made up a Canadian stereotype insult that doesn't make sense in German. And that one was OP. Because op is a big fat liar.
Also a Canadian misspelling "hockey?" I mean it's possible but if there's like ONE SPORT a Canadian would spell correctly...

It also just is bizarre that a person marries a native German speaker, has several kids, moves to Germany, and interacts with their family without the family having any idea she speaks any German at all. I mean, wouldn't you make an effort to say hi or speak if you're fluent?
Hokey addict seems to be about attention seeking not the sport hockey. Still struggle to find a idiomatic way ssying that in German, though... "Aufmerksamkeitsjunkie"? 

OP YTA either for making this up or for actively hiding that you speak German for no reason at all.
Also it’s extremely ingrained in Germans that it’s rude to speak German if someone in the vicinity doesn’t understand
Oh my god a HOCKEY addict. I was wracking my brain trying to understand why of all things they'd throw kitschig in there.
Hey man, I'm still gonna watch the Coyotes even though they've been moved to Utah and have no new name or jersey design. If that's not addiction I don't know what is.
My ex husband did. Had no real spine and didn’t want to fight with his family.
Thank you for the question! My husband's family would never talk bad about me around him. He did hear a few things here and there, but not enough for him to feel the need to tell them off. I hope that answers your question!
I'm having a hard time believing it for several reasons.

First, when OP met her husband, it's hard to fathom that he never told his family that she spoke German.

Second, that OP met them at the wedding and never spoke their language then or after they moved?

Third, why didn't the husband shut that shit down? Are you telling me that his family talked crap about his wife repeatedly, and he never said anything until she told him to? And why isn't she mad at him for what he did or didn't do?

Fourth, that OP would go that far without speaking in German. (This goes to number one, still...)

Fifth, I, an English speaker, have been in countries where English isn't the first language. I've also known many people here in my country who speak various languages as their first. Usually, people ask if you can understand or sometimes try to teach you a few words or phrases. When people have different languages, inevitably, language comes up as a topic.

I find it very hard to believe that people never asked, cared, or knew what languages OP speaks.
Not to mention the “I was going through a pretty bad postpartum depression…” when discussing an event that occurred……….yesterday.

You’d think that would be “I *am* going through a…”

This is creative writing.
If they are so self-centered that they feel comfortable saying shitty things about her in her face when they thought she couldn’t understand them, then they are perfectly capable of not putting any thought into how she performs day-to-day interactions in Germany.

Not trying to give attitude. Just pointing out that shitty people are typically very self-absorbed and don’t see outside of themselves. For me, at least, it’s believable.
Doesn’t seem real for your reasons plus why was Peter just there listening to this bad stuff and only talked to his family after his wife complained? And why wouldn’t it have come up then that she understands German? If she knows German, why doesn’t she speak it with the family? Made up nonsense for sure
i stopped believing at "bought a house in germany" if i'm being honest
[removed]
These kinds of stories come about every now and then and it’s always crazy to me that the bilingual person just never mentions they can speak the others language? Like do you not want to make conversation? Have any kind of deeper connection? It’s crazy to me that they just keep it a little secret and no one in the comments ever talks about it
Nah, I'm convinced this is fake.

Can you imagine a grandma named Lilith? I can imagine a modern day Lilith in the age of Khaleesis and Kayleighs, but I don't think people would have been ok with naming their baby Lilith (mother of demons/monsters) 60 or 80 years ago.

Add this to the points you yourself have made, and we have ourselves a not so convincing fake.
I agree. My wife’s Portuguese and when we visit her family I attempt to speak in Portuguese. It makes no sense why she never did so and if she did it would be obvious of her fluency.
Yeah I'm weirded out by her apparently never speaking german to her in laws.
FYI, Most Germans do learn English in school, so they probably thought that she used English when she did shopping, banking, etc.  I used to live there, and anytime I attempted to try German, they would switch to English because they were more fluent in it than I was with German.
I'm think it's fake because I can't think of how to say hokey addict in German. Addict is Junkie (Canadians would understand) or Süchtige (not used as an insult, feels unnatural). No idea what hokey is and even after looking up the meaning I'm lost on how to translate
If she made the family speak English for her the whole time while she was able to communicate in German, that makes it ESH
[removed]
I agree with you. My gut was "this is fake" because no normal human would live that long in that marriage and not share the family's language, plus her husband would surely have mentioned it to his family because of course HE knows she speaks German and they probably speak German with each other and the kids because that's the best way to raise multi-lingual children. 

So if this is real, OP is also an A for literally not even mentioning, say when she met the family, "hey, I speak German." Why keep that secret?

But again, that's why my gut says this is a masturbatory fairy tale, not a real story.
As a counterpoint, I work with a sister team in my company that is in Munich. They have new hires from India that joined the team, and they are living and working in Germany while speaking mostly English and learning German as they go. 

I have been to Munich, for up to ten days at a time for work, and I could navigate the non government business (food, grocery, transport) just fine. Most people could speak English, and Google translate helped me a lot in the rest of the cars. 

I do understand that government business is hard to negotiate if you don't speak German.
This is 100% my impression of OP. If she wanted to catch them talking shit, she got what she wanted.
Having travelled to multiple German cities as a mostly-monolingual English speaker, you can get by just fine day-to-day. For more complex stuff (bank, doctor), you can request or take a translator for your appointment! It's actually pretty easy to get by in Germany without much knowledge of German
I’m leaning towards ESH. I think the ‘surprise I speak fluent German and always have’ thing has been covered but also 

*holding the baby*

It’s also normal not to let anyone hold a new baby but this baby is over three months old. She’d have her most of her initial shots. Unless someone is sick or they want to kiss the baby, it would be pretty widely considered strange that grandma would not be allowed to hold her by this time, and to express dismay or concern.

*the name*

There’s also reasonable consternation for the name Lilith1 in certain contexts, especially for a traditional German family who may or may not be religious or be concerned about her future treatment. 

Not only does it mean ‘ghost’ but she’s also considered [a 
demon](https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lilith)  she’s also considered a goddess in Satanism. There’s a whole section about her in German culture in her wikepedia article

It’s also considered a strong feminist name reclaiming feminine power ala Lilith Fair2, so I get why she might not have realised the depth and breadth of the issues, but it’s along the lines of naming her Salem. Pretty, but you may be setting your daughter up for issues. 


The grandparents are definitely still assholes but  OP has set up some pretty hostile interaction points that would frustrate and concern many reasonable families. They have some legitimate grounds for concerns about a foreign DiL with  PPD who won’t let anyone hold the baby she’s named after a demon isolating herself and being generally strange, especially after hiding the fact she’s fluent in their language for literally years.

1“ theorized to be the first wife of Adam[1] and a primordial she-demon. Lilith is cited as having been « banished »from the Garden of Eden for not complying with and obeying Adam. Lilith continues to serve as source material in today’s popular culture, Western culture, literature, occultism, fantasy, and horror. “ 

2 “Sarah McLachlan founded the Lilith Fair tour, taking Lilith from the Jewish lore that Lilith was Adam’s first wife who refused to be subservient to him.[3]”
I’m not understanding how this makes OP an addict
In short...she's not the AH for snapping at them. But she is the AH for actively and purposefully hiding that she could speak German. While that doesn't excuse the family for their comments; it does show that she was actively attempting to be less casually communicative with them for many years. It seems to me that she was merely waiting for the opportunity to convince the husband to cut them off. This is manipulative. Again, still doesn't excuse the rest of the family's comments and for those alone I would support cutting them off. But...she is also the AH.
You know, this I can agree with. I was rolling my eyes at the comments that were only calling OP the asshole for "forcing" the Germans to speak English because that's just a dumb take, but she really did ACTIVELY hide that she spoke German. It wasn't only that she was dismissed after trying, or somehow discouraged from it, she literally hid it for a long time to listen in on the conversations. Sure the in-laws are still AHs for what they said but she isn't innocent in this either. 

(I might be dumb but I don't get the "hokey" thing tbh so many people seem to be assuming it meant "hockey" but idk??)

...that said, I usually hate going "this is fake" about posts here but this does feel like it never happened lol. Too many little inconsistencies.
Unfortunately I have had this experience and so has my Dad. I grew up in San Antonio which is over 60% Mexican American. My Dad was a manager at a store in a part of town that was probably closer to 90% latino. He never told new hires he spoke Spanish because honestly, he rarely does because it doesn't sound great with his southern drawl. But he understands it very very well. He'd wait for a while and eventually just casually comment on something he overheard and let them squirm with embarrassment. Each new hire basically went through this and didn't tell the next new hire as was tradition. Every new hire spoke Spanish because everyone speaks Spanish there or at least most people. They'd still make assumptions based on looks. You'd assume in a place where just about everyone speaks the language that people wouldn't do that but never underestimate how many idiots are in this world

I doubt the veracity because Germans are so direct. They will just say whatever to your face unflinchingly. As another commenter said, I would have believed it if they made them French... or Spanish
Some countries have more than one language. People still can’t believe I’m Puerto Rican, and are shocked I speak Spanish/ perfect English. My territory teaches us both languages, we have English and Spanish TV on the island. I’ve only ever chirped in when someone was being rude in Spanish and it’s usually always shocked pikachu face when I speak. I only speak it to my mom, now I have to speak it at work. My husbands family didn’t know I was Puerto Rican until I spoke to my mom on the phone, they assumed I was white.

Their interactions could have all been in English given he was in Canada and she was Canadian. She could have been studying on her own for whenever she visited. They woulda never known 😂
Throw hands... damn👀
I used to live in Germany and you don’t need to speak the language anywhere but very rural. Most people heard my accent and switched into English instantly.
She could mean "hockey." It's a Canadian.
I don't necessarily agree with this take. Her first interaction with them was them talking shit. In her mind, there was no reason to show she could speak German when they were automatically hostile toward her. If anything, it shows they're even bigger assholes for not even *considering* or asking if she could speak German in the first place. I'm more shaken no one knew. No one asked about her before they moved there?

Feels more like a toxic family dynamic than anything else, but I could just be projecting the toxicity of family units in the states lmfao.
It’s not that complicated — these are self-absorbed people who treat her like a piece of furniture and just prattle on about themselves.
As someone who lived overseas and never learned more than a few phrases, it's remarkably easy to grocery shop, pay bills and integrate curtesy of Google translate.   And doctors offices frequently contract with translation services since patients come from all over these days.
You won’t believe this. It’s… Hockey!
I should have put this into my original post, but I am really close to my FILs side of the family. My MIL and FIL are separated. Another reason why we moved to Germany was so Peter could get closer to his mom and her family.
I compleatly understand where you're coming from. I thought I wrote it in the post but I guess not. I origanaly wanted to keep the fact that I spoker German a secret for a while. I wanted to suprise my MIL on her birthday. I thought that she would like me more, and it would be a cool surprise. I did end up surprising her, but for the wrong reason. I hope this clears some things up!
I asked him not to. It was originally going to be a surprise on my MILs birthday. She did end up finding it out on her birthday but not in the way that I hoped.
Omg this is the best comment I have gotten! Defiantly made my day. Thank you for that!
Hello, and thank you for your comment! Like I have mentioned in my post, I didn't meet Peter's family until my wedding. I would sometimes talk to Peter's family when he called them, but we always spoke in English. I guess they had just assumed that I didn't know German. And I didn't tell them when I saw them again when I heard them insult me. I asked Peter not to tell them, only say that I did if they asked (I wouldn't ask him to lie to his family). And they never did. I was never planning to let them know that I spoke German, but they went too far when they called me fat and insulted something that I am so passionate about. If you have any other questions or I didn't answer one how you wanted, please ask me about it!
She lost me at leaving Canada over inflation, moving to Germany and buying a nice house in Hannover. LOL
Thank you for commenting! Post partum has been something that I have been through before and that I know many people go through. I honestly didn't think it was a main detail. When my ILs would talk about me he was often out of the room. They didn't want him to know what they were saying. I also asked my husband not to tell anyone because it was going to be a surprise on my MIL's birthday. It's good to question things that you see online. I hope you have a good day!
He never existed, just like this entire scenario.
For a second there I thought you were fr! Defiantly made me laugh. If that was your intention or not, thank you.
Thank you for your comment! To answer your first question, I had asked Peter not to tell the family. I didn't want to make them uncomfortable and not want to talk to me anymore. And to answer your second question, my husband was having a conversation with his aunt at the time. I don't think he heard what they were saying until I called them out. I did have a conversation with my husband this morning about this though. If you have any other questions don't be afraid to ask!
Imagine being a child growing up in it and not knowing any different.
Fathom
This is what makes me think this whole story is bullshit.

So she moved to another country and got to several family gatherings where she could have exchanged with people with ease in the language of the area, but what did she do instead? Sit in the corner the whole time pretending she doesn't understand? Only bother communicating with people in English? 

And the husband who clearly knows she speaks German never bothered to tell everyone involved?
Because she didnt. This post is fake. And if it isnt, OP has issues.
How rude would it be to make the whole family speak in English when she could speak German easily? There's no way language woes would never come up in previous visits or conversations. I live in Germany, and that's their standard small talk when they meet a foreigner
Yeah thats really weird. If shes known german since childhod and she never talked to them in german? Her husband necer told them she knew german. Its weird. 
Exactly. And why? Whatever for?  What would be the purpose of not sharing something so lovely: that they can communicate easily?
But she told him about what they were saying, or did I read the post wrong?
Obviously they didn't talk to her,they talked about her.
no asshole at all. You obviously have no idea how many Germans jump at the opportunity to speak English with an English speaker. 

I speak multiple European languages, but 99% of Germans I met internationally talked to me in English even after they realise I understand German.
[deleted]
I don’t think you understand how well most Germans speak English…many of them are fluent and it’s really no problem for them at all. Sure, for the odd rural households or elderly folk it may be more difficult, but it’s basically a second main language in Germany
Her husband probably told at some point, but it didn't register with his family, because they had so little interaction prior to moving to Germany.


The in-laws probably assumed she only knew the bare minimum of greetings, thought they could get away with trashing their foreign DIL/SIL and now found out that they exposed themselves as xenophobic assholes.
Haha, "angryphones", I love it! I suppose it didn't even occur to me, as I love languages and find the superiority that some anglophones display quite shameful.

Even so, the family were still rude about her, and stupid for talking about her in front of her, whether she understands German or not.
They are blaming OP for their embarrassment. If they had empathy or grace, they would blame themselves.
Darvo. Deny, Attack, Reverse Victim Offender.

When I had a coworker explain that to me it was like... 🤯🤯🤯.
Oh, to have been a fly on the wall..... What you did was awesome. Those people don't deserve to know you or Lilith. (Beautiful name, btw.)
I'm shocked they seemed so surprised with their anger? The OP moved to Germany and they just assumed OP would never learn the language? Like, even if OP didn't know it beforehand, it seems totally reasonable to assume *eventually* she'd be able to understand them.
That’s happened to me with my family. It’s just ridiculous
Oh you caught me on camera? You weirdo filming everyone...

They turn it around somehow.
I’m living that right now, I don’t need to imagine it…my ex-wife is blaming me for ruining her second marriage and her life. I said (insert name) “we haven’t been together for over a decade, how are your poor decisions my fault?” Her answer (I kid you not) “they just are because they can’t be mine!”
It's no different than someone overhearing people, speaking your normal language, talking shit about you, and when confronted going off on how rude it is to eavesdrop

What is kind of amazing is that Peter didn't say anything LONG before OP complained to him.  I assume he speaks German so he could hear the things his family was saying.  But not once did he say, "HEY that is my wife and I won't tolerate you speaking like that about her."
That's like half of North America
The best type of defensive is an offensive manevour
It happens so often they have an acronym for it. DARVO
It always blows my mind when people do that... They're just mad they were caught.
Many years ago I was doing an internship and two of the other interns were Brazilian. I told them on day 1 that I spoke Portuguese since I lived in Brazil as a teenager. Fast forward a few months and we're all hanging out one night. Turns out they forgot I had told them and were surprised I spoke Portuguese. One of them started looking really uncomfortable, realizing that I might have heard /understood all the things they were saying and then told me "that's not cool, you should have told us you spoke Portuguese!".... Like bruh... I told you Day 1, it's not my fault you forgot 😐
Oh man, I would have loved to been a fly on the wall when this happened. You are NTA. I give you credit for trying to maintain the peace. And to those who say she should have told the family earlier about her German, I say no. 

She gave it time and that is smart, you want to know how bad these folks are, in case it wouldn't be safe to leave the baby, as one example. I love that you did this. They're mad because they know they are horrible for what they did and are deflecting. Go No contact with the whole group.
Germans are historically known for their patience and kindness. It suprises me that they're assholes.
>I don’t know why but people seem to be way more inclined to be assholes if they don’t think you can understand them.

For the same reason we’re all a little saltier online, and the same reason medical people really have to make an effort to not say things about their demented/unconscious patients. (ETA I don’t often hear my medical colleagues straight insult someone’s appearance or anything like that. More like “Oh gross, look what’s coming out of her catheter” or things of that nature.) You delude yourself into thinking you’re in a safe space. Doesn’t make it any less rude though.
Spanish isn't exactly Yup'ik - I would imagine that close to half the population of California understands a little Spanish.
Pure curiousity but ... how early in your relationship did you meet them and why didn't your husband say something to them about meeting a bilingual woman?
If "speaking your mind" brings up all these unkind things, dad, then maybe it's time for some introspection of why your mind is filled with so much unkindness..:
Having lived in California I find people there talk a lot about their feelings but also cannot handle any kind of conflict.  YMMV.
> Nicaraguense 

is this a thing? thought it was Nicaraguan
Happy Cake Day! 🎂🎂🎂
Disgraceful
Same here.
My MIL and SIL *at least* had the decency to blame me for my daughter’s autism (which comes from their side of the family btw) in the kitchen, in front of my mother. So classy.  /s
Why are you puzzled? I know my husband's language (we live in his country) and I just don't really feel comfortable speaking it as it's my third language and I'm not entirely fluent, but I do understand conversation. So most of the extended family don't think that I know anything besides basics "hello, how're you doing?". I guess op may be similar. She probably hadn't had reason to speak German in a long while either as they seem to communicate in English, being from an English speaking country. 
He only talked to his family AFTER OP asked him to. It wasn't his own initiative.
Nope, if true, he doesn't get a pass.

He meets a woman and tells his family all about her but leaves out the one significant factor - she speaks German! Even if he's fluent in English, it's nice occasionally to be able to speak in your primary language but he never mentions it.

He marries her and in the lead-up to their wedding, there aren't Facetime calls or messages and it never comes up?

At the wedding, or since they've been in Germany he made his family have all their conversations in English when he knew it was for her benefit but she didn't need that accommodation?

In the conversations around prepping the first child for the move his family will have asked if they've taught the toddler any German. He never mentioned that they both are able to help the child learn?

As family weren't they concerned this young woman was coming into a country with a small child and about to have another and would be isolated? Another good chance to tell family that "oh no, she can speak German, she'll have no problem with playgroups, doctors and hospitals".
Yeah, and in another posts she says, that "she" wants to start to teach her son german.  I mean hä? Her husband is a native speaker, they suposedly live in germany. There would absoluly no need for her to be in charge, to teach the kid german.
Nope, I call BS that at no point did the husband either A) tell them in the moment to shut up because she knows German or B) mention it when he scolded them for making those comments after OP asked him to.
Except that she supposedly told them off in German. I’m with the og commenter, this story sound incredibly fake
She did say in her post "I spoke German most of my life".
Nah. My MIL has a different first language, which I'm trying to learn, but I struggle a lot with speaking. I'm really insecure about it, but you bet that I at least try to slip some small sentences into our conversations every now and then. I call either BS or bad intentions in hiding the language skills.
Plenty of people make new accounts for stuff like this because they don't want to implode their usual Reddit account. Of all the reasons not to believe this post, that is at the bottom of the list.
My aunt is german but has lived abroad most of her life. My jaw drops at some of the things she says...
Oh absolutely. They do not mince words, and certainly don't talk behind your back when they can just tell you.
Exactly! I know someone who laughed when overhearing a joke his co-workers said in another language. He said they froze, like “oh shit, does he understand us?!”
I’m glad I’m not the only one who caught that. Almost had an aneurysm from all the eye rolling.
I thought this was common knowledge 🤣 I always think of the saying ‘The Germans are too honest to be polite and the Brits are too polite to be honest‘ Germans are brutally honest and will insult you to your face!
a big fat ugly hokey addict liar
Ah, so she was talking about the *sport*.

My midnight mid-studies almost dead brain thought 'hokey' was supposed to be some whole other word. Searched it up and something to do with attention-seeking or something, which confused me more because 'attention-seeking addict' doesn't make much sense either.
Wait, are we sure they meant hockey? I thought they meant hokey like as in kinda fake? Like you’re a fraud and an addict. Now I’m so confused
Very much depends on the German 😅

Source: Canadian working in Germany
Yeah my thought exactly. Usually Germans are very honest and blunt but they would never offer their opinion if it wasn't asked for. Odd that they would insult her by a Canadian slur. Calling BS on this post.

Also-- her German MIL would be jealous that the baby, her grandchild, is getting more attention? LOLLLL
So then when he told them off for talking about you how did explain to them how he knew what they were saying? 
Yeah, there’s zero chance the husband never once mentioned to his family that the woman in Canada that he met, dated, got engaged to, married, had a child with, *and moved to Germany with* speaks their native language. Absolutely fake.
If you move to another country everybody will ask you if you are going to learn the language and if you have any language problems in day to day life. Is it really believable that no one in the family ever asked such a question either to her or to her husband? If they really are as pity and don't like her that much is it believable that they never asked "when will you learn the language of the country you are living?'

What is about the older child, doesn't it speak yet? Although kids raised bilingual are quite good to make the difference which language belongs to which parent children can get really excited or make mistakes like every human and use the wrong language. Did this never happen while they were with the family?

Is the family really that fluent with english? In my experience it would happen at some time that some things are discussed in German and afterwards someone starts to translate/summarize in English. At this point every normal guest would say they understand what was said.

Has the family no other kids or older people? Although it is true that many germans speak quite good english this is much less true with older people who usually don't consume any english media. Children usually start to learn english in primary school but it usually only 'hello my name is...' and some english songs and regular lessons start at age of 10. The first years it is normal that they don't know  much vocabulary so that even shorter dialogues will be difficult. Here the adult should offer to switch to the native language of the kid. (There are primary schools where they learn more than that but it will still last some time to learn it. )
OP also wrote "I am planning on teaching my kids German. I'm slowly teaching my son since he is 2 years old." But wouldn't growing up in Germany mean the kid is immersed in the language already? What is there to teach?
Yes, I also noticed that and thought that seemed pretty weird. It made me recheck when she said it had happened
Plus I'm giving *very* slim odds that her great-grandma was called Lilith. Maybe things are different in Canada but that just seems... unlikely. Though it *is* the sort of name a bored teenager would probably find super cool...
Seems rather odd that she'd force everyone to 'cater' to her speaking English, for months, while she speaks German and lives in Germany...
Agreed. However, if a son marries overseas to a person who speaks the family language there's a much higher probability it would come up than not. And then when moving back, it's likely it would come up then. They dote on the son, allegedly, and want to dote on the baby, and are up everybody's asses, so based on the framework of the story, according to people's habits generally, it's most likely they'd have asked/insulted/xenophobed/been up his ass at some point about the son's choice of wife and it would have come up. Lol.
That plus, if this happened to me I would try my best to make SURE the family didn’t know I spoke their language so I could wait for the perfect moment to call them out. 

I’m petty like that though. 
"because of inflation in Canada..." When Germany had inflation that was higher than Canada at that time lol
Yeah, this is a bot account farming karma points.

Frankly, I'm surprised the mother in law didn't drink one of her potitions, turned into a dragon, and ate the baby.
Haha thank you, so many other flags in this post but 3 generations of the name Lilith in North America? Nope.
“3 generations of Lilith” set my BS meter off too. 

It’s not impossible that almost every woman in a matrilineal line share the same name (though I’ve personally never seen it go beyond 2) but that name itself is… unique and has a lot of meaning to it that screams fanfic to me.
Yea, that sealed the deal for me that this was fake. No way that Lilith would be a family name going way back.
Lilith has been quite popular in the 1920s in germany
Yes, yes, it's common knowledge that 1) English is a Germanic language which developed not far from there 2) that it has been the lingua franca for awhile now 3) that West Germany was controlled/reshaped by the mostly English speaking Allies. Those three points illustrate why Germany has an even stronger than \[European\] usual relationship to English. Yes, FYI, yes, we know, It's not a secret.

But you do accidentally make a good point ... I'm realizing I need to change to ESH. \*If\* this story is true (being accused of being "a fat ugly [hokey](https://www.collinsdictionary.com/us/dictionary/english/hokey) addict" could be the easter egg to let us know it's not!) OP is also an asshole for marrying into a family whose language she has spoken her "whole life," moving to their nation/city, bringing them grandkids even who are clearly now officially being raised to speak that same language, but never once speaking to them natively — even willfully letting them develop the impression she did not speak their language(!), until after eavesdropping/spying on their native communication for a substantial period of time lol. Perhaps this story is true! And ESH for sure!!
The story would be more believable if the family was French, I’m a Canadian who speaks fluent French which is how I know French people often assume no one speaks their language and talk mad shit in French. 
Us Germans have as diverse a range of asshole types and behaviours as anyone else.

I agree on the skepticism regarding the story, but do believe me that it's within the realm of possibility for Germans.
People are people with the whole gamut of human traits and failings. My experience marrying into German family was similar to OPs.
Eh, sadly there are jerks everywhere in the world.
Absolutely, good points. But like you said, the immigrants referenced (as opposed to you the visitor) were learning German. Meaning, practicing out loud and such. English goes far in this world, indeed, but already speaking a language, moving to its nation, and specifically going through a pregnancy and birth in the local medical system without the nearby family seeing you ever use the language is far-fetched. Like, if you're planning to birth a baby in a nation you've relocated to and already speak the language, you'll know the child will be learning that language ... you'll be refining your use of it leading up to the birth, and you'll be talking to it in that language ... especially if you know the family is and will be speaking that language to the child, you'd want everyone to know you're a part of that education and communication too.
Sure. But why would you (Peter, a *German* person) not mention to your family,  at least once, that the woman you dated, got engaged to, married, had a baby with, emigrated to Germany with, had another baby with, that your family talks shit about on the regular...speaks German??
The whole wikipedia section about her in German culture is just about her being a character in Faust. 

Tbh I never heard of Lilith in German before, and I had 13 years of Religious (Catholic) Education in school plus confirmation class. I found out about her in English media.
Yes! I was ready to head to the in-laws house with the group and get to ransacking after reading the story and initially commenting. Of course they'd be terrible people, if living and breathing after all. But then after getting notifications, coming back for discussion, and rereading it dawned on me in a flash! *Who the flippy fuck would actually do that. As a choice?* Cause you're right, contrary to experiences people have anecdotally been comparing, OP's role can and must be summarized to, "Yeah, I actively and for awhile hid the fact I could speak their language, even after moving to their country and birthing a child there." What? That would be an insane way to choose to live your life. 

Maybe she did play hockey though before helmets and face masks were common. Too many dings to the head can mess with the brain's ability to brain right.
That’s pretty common in work places. But in a family? No way the son doesn’t mention it by the wedding.
That is a fantastic point.

I can't tell if I'm proud of myself for not naturally jumping to the lowest of low hanging stereotypes, or dismayed by the thought of what else may so easily be whooshing over my head day to day.
A hockey addict?!? Omg lol
okay this makes a lot more sense and I'm glad you have good relations with your FIL's side of the family. all the best with your MIL and co
It really doesn't make sense. You kept that a secret for years, no? And you also told your husband not to tell his family?
You kept the fact that you speak your in-laws native language a secret so you could reveal it at your MILs birthday three years into your marriage? 

How did you PLAN for that reveal to go? “Surprise in-laws, I speak german and I have the entire time I’ve known you, and I never brought it up so I could have this surprise for you!” 

The time to reveal this information and get a good reaction was the first time you met them lol. After that it becomes weird because now they want to know why didn’t you bring it up before.
I'd be petty and tell them you're working on forgetting a complete phrase that starts with F and ends with U. 
In another comment, you say you were planning on surprising your mother in law that you spoke fluent German on her birthday. Now you are saying you never planned to let them know(which is extremely weird)
Yes, why were you never planning to let them know that you spoke German? What was your purpose in that?
Lmao, yeah I was just making a joke about how obviously you are not the asshole in this situation fuck those guys. what other kinds of stuff would they say about you that you picked up on? (If you wouldn’t mind answering) That sounds so absolutely aggravating to experience also have you had any contact with them yet? Maybe when you do make a new post this is an insane story and I’d love an update.
Out of curiosity, do all of Peter's family speak English as well, or mainly German? Do you think they may have warmed up to you a bit more had they known you also spoke their language?

Were you planning on ever telling them you understood the language? Do you plan on having your children learn German too?

  
Either way, they were entirely out of line to be speaking ill of you. Especially in front of you in a language they believed you didn't understand, while also surrounded by family who did.
I will be eternally thankful that I had an amazing mother and a great childhood. I can’t imagine what I would be like if I did not have great parents.
he’s not a child anymore, though…
Fathom the Phantom
Of course it’s bullshit, it’s BLATANTLY OBVIOUS that the story is fake. Just look at all the logical fallacies.

I don’t get how so many people answer as if this was a real story 🤦🏻‍♀️😂
If they're just assuming she doesn't speak German, they may have forced the issue themselves. I've seen it happen when someone assumes a bilingual person actually isn't. You get a nasty attitude and combine it with assumptions, and yeah, you can hide speaking a language for a while.
I believe she said she’d only met them at their wedding prior to moving to Germany?
No, you read it right.  But he might have told them to be nice to his wife last time and they said they would, then they were like this.

So, when she decided to leave, he didn't hesitate.  He probably apologized for having a bad family.

He might have been getting angry at the table and OP beat him to the punch.
He did and she said for the next 3 months there were no mean comments. And then she had the baby and didn't see them for a while. So it seems he did talk to his family as soon as he knew about it. Presumably they wouldn't be making those comments in front of him because he speaks German
My brother lived in Germany for a while and he was always so frustrated because he wanted to speak German to them but the SECOND they learned he's not actually from Germany they switched to English. 

I find it really weird some people in this thread are kicking up a fuss because she "forced" the Germans to speak English lol. Why is it rude to make them speak in their secondary language but it's somehow not rude to make OP speak in her secondary language? That's just a weird stance to take.
I'm struggling to believe this happened. Would you not have spoken to your partner's inlaws in their native language at least once during your wedding? It seems natural to bring it up
I mean, he *definitely* told them, if they'd been paying even the most minimal amount of attention, because he's already had to speak to them once about insulting her. That they didn't register that that meant she clearly *understood* what they were saying is *entirely* on them.
Yes, but if they had empathy and grace, they would never have made those unkind comments to begin with.
Ironically I bet there's a great German word for that concept!
JADE (Justify, Argue, Defend, Explain) is a game changer to deal with difficult people prone to breakdowns in communication and having tables turned on you, solely for them to win whatever is at hand. Like a recipe to follow for more productive conflict resolution. Doubt it woulda helped here, though. She was doomed to lose regardless. Keep your head up, OP. And high diving you from the states for the badass mic drop moment that I would have not been able to hold back on for as long as you did! badass for real hah :)

eta: NTA by any means. Wicked fucking awesome, not asshole!
I believe Lilith is the original first woman. 

Adam wanted a new one because she wouldn’t stop cowgirl when Adam wanted missionary..  thus Eve.
I agree that Lilith is a beautiful name!
This is what I was thinking.  the fact that they never asked her before if she spoke German after marrying a German man. Like it seems clear that they weren’t interested in getting to know her which says a lot about them.
And that’s on them for not asking OP (from a place of care and genuine love & welcoming) whether they knew any German when they got there and offering to help them practice their German too —- at least that’s what some non-narcissistic in-laws would do 

OP- NTA!!!!
The most funny Thing is, most Germans demand that you have to at least learn the basics in time of you want to live here. Fucking hypocrits. OP ist NTA
I totally agree that people IRL would not behave the way the characters in this story did. The biggest sticking point for me was, OP talked to her husband who then talked to his family and told them to knock off the German insults in front of her. Which they did for a while. Ask yourself, how likely is it that that whole conversation and behavioral change would take place with no mention or realization of the fact that OP speaks German? 

Another thing that is not quite as improbable, but was still tough to swallow: "hockey addict" (which I assume is what OP meant when they wrote "hokey addict") is something Americans say about Canadians. Do Germans really use that exact same insult? I mean, maybe so, but I'd be surprised.
😂😂😂😂 sorry but I just can’t help laughing at this, the absolute audacity of your ex Lol
That's actually a good point.

OP YNTA, your in-laws are massive AHs though.
Well, they aren't too bright.  I can understand how they might not have assumed that OP had spoken German most of her life.  But she's been married to a German for three years.  Then lived in Germany, although it isn't clear how long she's been there.

It would be reasonable to assume that she might have picked up some German in that time, and could understand them.  Why should she have to tell them the obvious?
If someone doesn’t like you, even a little for petty reasons, DO NOT GIVE THEM ACCESS TO YOUR CHILDREN. They will seem fine in front of you and be horrible to your children behind your back.
Try being in an elevator with people and Hispanics enter and continue to talk bad about the occupants.  I did say something in Spanish, which was if you want to speak to each other in Spanish, that's fine, but don't think that talking about others is good, it's not.  Speak English so everyone can hear your conversation.  It's downright rude to talk about other people.  They couldn't get out of the elevator fast enough.
Every time I hear someone saying something derogatory in Spanish behind their back to someone  from California, i always think about how stupid can you be making the assumption that they can't at least understand a bit of Spanish. If you are in construction, farming, or the restaurant business, you will be able to speak at least pidgin Spanish.
We learned Spanish in *elementary school* when I was a kid in rural southern California. No idea what it's like now but ffs
I did a double take whrmen I read this because I happen to speak a little Spanish as well as a little Yup'ik.
This. I live in the middle of Ohio . Twice in the last week , I’ve been shocked by the perfect Spanish (yo Hablo un poco) coming out of the mouth of a very rural Ohio pasty white person . And I laughed because I thought “oooo they’ve overheard some stuff”
I actually happened to meet them before we started dating when they came to our school once (we met in college). The disparities came later & I'm not sure what exactly triggered them. Also, I don't think my husband knew at that point *exactly* how much Spanish I knew. Not till I confronted him about what his dad said, which my husband did go to bat for me ❤️
MY BIGGEST PET PEEVE
In English, Nicaraguan. In Spanish, nicaraguense.
Sorry my husband & his family say Nicaraguense so that's how I always say it now.
Aww, ty 😊
It was. And my husband never defended me.
It was. And my husband never defended me.
Damn. Sorry for you. It sucks.
Damn. Nasty
I don't think his family would talk trash about his wife in his hearing range. 


She told him after and he called his family out. Unfortunately, it didn't stick and they didn't really changed their behaviour. 


My own sister-in-law is Chinese and if I would hear my German relatives talk trash about her, I would rip into them. 


Actually, into everyone. If I notice, everyone will get a tongue-lashing. 
These guys don't seem like they care about their daughter in law enough to worry about how she'd feel being isolated in a new country.  If she's only met them once before, it doesn't sound like there were other visits of many other video calls with her.  I  get life is busy but if you don't get invested with your wife knowing your parents, I'm assuming it's because you don't have much of a relationship with them.  Some parents are acquaintances who only do small talk, usually about themselves, unless it's being nasty about others.
No excuse for them being rude.
It's not stated in the post, but given that OP specifically chose not to tell husband's family she spoke German, I think it's implied she asked the husband also not to tell them. 

Maybe not though. I suppose he had an opportunity before the smack-talking started, during which presumably OP wouldn't have told him not to mention it. I don't know, to me the whole thing is a bit odd.
All great points but how is any of this relevant… OP’s husband has no obligation to tell his family she speaks German. Also… crazy concept but the family could’ve shown a minute level of interest in OP and easily learned whether or not she knew the language by *talking* with her rather than about her. Or oh, hey, offering to help teach her some German when they moved over. But they weren’t curious about her. Yet another sign that OP + husband are NTA. Clearly the family is.
And that he never said “Hey mom and dad, I met a great woman here in Canada, and she even speaks German!”

No chance this wouldn’t have come up earlier.
There are parts of Canada where German is rather dominant. Guelph, Ontario for example. Used to be called Berlin but then... Germany elected this guy who did some stuff and we had a war about it and names of places changed up.
I assumed hockey as in a Canadian was addicted to watching hockey. Hokey addict would be what, OP is addicted to drugs or something?

Also, I live in a foreign country where my wife is from and I can speak a fair amount. I don't even understand how someone wouldn't attempt to say hi to relatives or in-laws ever. Strangers - yes. Strangers make annoying comments sometimes but what are the odds you never mention you've been fluent your entire life.
My mother's first question after gibing her congratulations would be "how is she going to get by in Germany without knowing the language?"

This story is just a Seinfeld re-write, done poorly.

NO BETTE MIDDLER??????
I mean, no not really. If the kid is 2 there is a pretty high chance they aren't in school yet, so what they are immersed in is what is going on in the home. Maybe OP is watching mostly english television, reading english books, talking to the kids in english, etc.
Plot Twist: she was forcing them to speak French...
Why does everyone keep using the word force…people like practising their second language and it probably happened naturally. Germans speak English better than the English do
A friend of mine was living in Germany for a few years and knew a woman there who would only speak to him in English because she believed Americans didn't learn other languages. That illusion was shattered one day when she overheard him speaking German with someone else. They had known each other for more than six months at that point. 

I don't know if OP is making up their story, but it doesn't sound implausible to me.
Nope, as most Germany back then would have no idea how to pronounce the English th sound. This is quite difficult for Germans and the result is often an s sound.  So Lilith would be Lilis.
Fette, hässliche Eishockysüchtige is not really a thing a german speaker would say in a sentence. It is not the way we use insults. And Ice Hocky is not a big thing in germany. Most people are not really aware of the meaning in Canada. 

We would rather say something like: Ice Hocky Mädchen (ice hocky girls, not in a good way). Or we would complain about how all she ever talks about is ice hocky and how exhausting it is. Or we would complain about the stupid american who is not doing her best to integrate in our culture as she cannot even speak german even so she lived here for years. 

The chosen insult is a clear sign that this did not happen in a german family.
And then you try to speak French, but because you learn from a Quebecoise, they get mad at you anyway 😂
My aunt married a Greek man and became fluent in the language, could speak it very very well, and they owned a shop together. Have a convenient store when I was growing up so I think 40 years ago with a takeaway food attached to it, anyway, my aunt used to swear in Greek and be really belligerent to the customers in Greek. When they come in, she was real nasty. I was told then one day a customer turned back around and swore back at her and told her off and told her that she shouldn’t believe that not everyone doesn’t understand what she’s saying. when I was told the story as an adult, I actually laughed at my aunt because my aunt was that type of person and it served her right for getting caught.
You mean you knew German the whole time and pretended not to to your spouses family?
Sure, I mean my point still stands. My point is that the history is well-known enough that it’s got a mention, it’s not a culture where the name is totally unknown or has totally different connotations. She’s already said it means ‘ghost’ to them. 

From your experience in Germany  if a secretive daughter in law suffering from mental illness, letting nobody touch her baby, suddenly shouts at everyone in a language she’d hidden her knowledge of for years - would it be more or less worrying if she’d named her baby something that didn’t mean Ghost/Demon?
Yes, I meant that I was planning on letting them know on my MILs birthday. If you have any other questions, Don't be afraid to ask!
They mostly just commented on my appearance. One that I remember was when I was pregnant my MIL said how my maternity dress made me "simply look fat" as she said. Others were comments on my hair. I have pretty thick curly hair, so it's often a mess. That one really hurt because I had spent a long time working to get it to flatten. My husband has had contact, mostly angry calls, but I have not had direct contact with anyone in that family.
Peter's family all speak multiple languages. They all speak German, English, and his siblings and mother speak Russian (his dad is from Russia).

I was planning on telling them, but I'll admit that I kept putting it off so that I could hear what they said about me. I am planning on teaching my kids German. I'm slowly teaching my son since he is 2 years old, and I will teach my daughter when I think that she knows enough English.

Thank you for the questions!
I was lucky and escaped in my early 20s. Many don’t.
I didn’t say he was.
Fathom the Lilith
this is a killer band name
Ah yes, my favorite Nickelodeon show, Danny Fathom
That wasn't their point.  The question is not why the family would assume she doesn't speak German.  It's why she never once spoke German to a German family, in Germany, during frequent visits to them in their own home over the course of months, when she has spoken fluent German from a young age.  And her husband never once mentioned to his family that she understands and speaks German?  Frankly it's quite rude of her to make her in-laws think for so long that they need to use a foreign language just to communicate with her.  This is an ESH if it's even real, but I think it's just rage bait.
That is cuz its fake and never actually happened
Implausible though. I wouldn't be able to help myself from saying a few words in a shared second language. It's gotta be human nature, no? Has anyone seriously ever not done this who isn't a spy or something?
Saying something like "hello, welcome" or "nice to meet you" in German they may have just assumed she practiced beforehand and then spoke English to her in response, so she continued in English.
Critiquing somebody in a different language in front of them is a recipe for disaster. Insulting somebody, is crazy.
That's true.
Not very demure
And would have offered to teach her German
But, they were under the impression she couldn’t understand so that makes it ok. /s
On the spot I think maybe "Schuldverschiebung" which means blame shifting or "Schuldumkehr" which litterally means blame reversal, but I think the correct translation is victim blaming
Bound to be. At least she AND the husband haven’t spoken to them since. Hopefully, if there is any form of reconciliation, they will know not to treat OP poorly in the future.
So true.  They have great words for everything 
NTA

I'm not going to lie; this made me lol at the thought of their faces when you spoke to them in their native tongue.  They were seriously rude and disrespectful, so not funny. 

In this day and age with translation apps, why would they take the risk?

Maybe it's time to move back to Canada?!
Don’t worry I laughed too, which just sent storming off…so win win for me. 1. She left and 2. She left quickly.
And probably learn the insults first!
My kids are learning Spanish in elementary school in Georgia......
That's awesome! Did you learn it in Alaska?
Soooo, he’s an ex now. Right? Lol 
I'm sorry you went through that. Marriage and romantic relationships in general should be much more loving than that. 
I’m sorry about that. I’ve never had to live with a language barrier, but my husband doesn’t defend me to his mother with anything and it just sucks doesn’t it you feel completely disregarded and a lesser person because of it and you wonder why they married you and in his cross, my mind, and my marriage on more than one occasion.
Good.  I’m very pro divorce when it comes to bad men.
Yeah, it took me 40 years to realize it, but the last 5 of no contact have been great.  Wish I’d done it sooner.
Oh the family definitely are AH in this, I just don't think the husband is exonerated.

I just didn't think it was true - but given other replies to this post I can see it does happen. Maybe my family overshares? Would my future son-in-law be horrified by what I know about him :)
It was Kitchener, Ontario that was formally named Berlin. The name was changed in 1916, due to growing anti-German sentiment, and Canada's entry into the Great War.
Definitely not Guelph. It's the Kitchener-Waterloo area where the German crowd hangs out. Oktoberfest is coming! :-)
i’m gonna be honest, i speak english as a second language better than many native speakers as well, but i still very much prefer to talk in my native tongue. if somebody knew how to speak it, there is a zero chance that i would continue to converse with them in english.
If after months in a country you're showing no signs of learning the local language and putting in no effort, especially towards family resentment can build.


 OP is acting all 'oh woe is I', but the basic thing is: she did portray herself, on purpose, as a stereotype from across the pond. 


Had she actually shown any will to engage with her family they wouldn't have started being so negative. 


 Month 1: oh nice that they've move back here 


 Month 2: oh they're visiting again, time to all speak English again 


 Month 3: no talk of signing up for courses to learn German? 


 Month 4: how is she going to teach her kids? Talk and understand the doctors properly? Understand their teachers of she's not learning German?


 Month 5: why do we have to keep engaging in English if she doesn't even show the least bit of effort to learn German? Is she that incapable/ dumb etc... 




 An ever escalating dissatisfaction with OP.


And yes, while plenty of west europeans speak nato English, there's a lot of nuance lost in translation. Switching to a common language every once in a while works, but OP mentions visiting frequently, at some point it becomes a chore to have to limit your communication to a second / third language, especially with family.
Hokey not hockey
If this story is real and she can speak German it would really help us to repeat the insult in German.
Worse if you speak French with a Franco-Manitoban accent!
Instant karma! 🤣 I'm a BIG fan.
Why didn't you tell them from the beginning that you have been speaking German "for almost my whole life"?
That’s very true Curly hair is super hard as I’ve gotten older I just let mine be a mess. But that’s awful, was your husband ever around to personally hear these comments by them for himself? And do you have any idea why these people seem to just dislike you or what started it? But yes I would love an update when this plays out more. Thank you for stopping to answer my questions
I once heard the quote, “What other people think of you is none of you business.” Basically ignorance is bliss and you shouldn’t worry about what other people think of you. 

The other thing is that children acquire language and can acquire multiple languages at once. No need to withhold German. However, I knew a German family hear in America who were exclusively German at hope because they new they would experience English out of the house. So if that is what your doing, ignore the last part of my comment
Ooohhhh nice. I like this.
Unfortunately that’s the part that makes me start questioning the whole story.
It doesn’t matter. It’s not rude. What’s rude is thinking she doesn’t speak the language and then talking shut about her thinking “she won’t understand us anyways” people assume I don’t speak Hindi but I do and I can understand it. But if you’re gonna sit there and talk shit about me, I’m not gonna tell you that I do because you’re speaking your honest thoughts whereas if you know I spoke Hindi, you’d be the fakest person on planet earth.
> That wasn't their point. The question is not why the family would assume she doesn't speak German.

Maybe because they switch to English as soon as she says a single word of German. That happens very often to foreigners when locals assume you can’t speak the language.
If I was addressed in the language, sure.

If I was regularly talked past in the language? I'm not so sure.
I've never revealed to coworkers that I understand Spanish (and French, but the coworkers speak Spanish). Several different jobs over many years and there was never a need to tell them I understood their gossip 

They just assumed the pasty white mayo chick only knows English 🤷🏻‍♀️
I might not switch over if they were bad mouthing me from the start. I might hide my bilingual skills out of embarrassment for their unbelievable rudeness.
This is exactly how I survived my 3 year tour in Germany.

I'm one of 'those people' that just cannot learn a foreign language. Hell, I grew up in the South Bay Area of California, failed Spanish I all 4 years of high school, had a Latina GF for 2 years, and still only know a couple of curse phrases.

Probably related; I just don't get computer coding either.
 
really playing with fire with that one lol
Not at all mindful or cutesy.
But very mindful.
My people!
A severe lack of *elegance*.
Germans have ALL the best words!!!
They're both perfectly good translations. Why would you imagine there is only ONE "correct" one? I had an annoying monoglot (presumably) editor once who seemed to have that bizarre idea.
I wonder if you can provide an explanation for SILs "hokey addict"? 


I know what the words mean separately, but do they mean something else in German? Or some sort of slur? 


It seems like a hilariously ridiculous interpretation of something American she heard. 
Why did the husband tolerate this nastiness to his wife?
> Maybe it's time to move back to Canada?!

As bad as the IL's are, I think Germany would still be better than Canada.
Cost of living in Canada is currently ridiculous.
Yes, thought I'm not sure I learned it as much as I butchered it, while those who were fluent graciously encouraged my efforts.  In both cases, my learning was primarily from living in communities where I was exposed to the language in daily life, so it's not a formal education, but conversational phrases or words.
Hopefully. 🤞
No he is not I can’t leave for financial reasons. We are just roommates that’s it. I do not cook or do his laundry. It is horrible
Same. When your mate does not speak up - or reluctantly does- for whatever reason: family dynamics, enmeshed, cowardice (or maybe they secretly agree?), your love for them dies.   I made the mistake of marrying even though his family’s true nature emerged before the wedding.  If I could go back in time…. I would politely excuse myself from his bizarre family dinner leaving the engagement ring under my plate.
D.I.VO.R.C.E.  You will be glad you did.
My point exactly.
Women should divorce bad husbands early and often!
It’s definitely a weird dynamic in my view too. I found it very surprising, but people are all their own little snowflakes with their own quirks, be it secrets or oversharing. That last bit you wrote gave me a chuckle… much rather be in an oversharing/loved nest like yours than a secretive/guarded situation with in-laws. 

But it still seems like the husband was being supportive of OP as best he could given his limited context personally with these interactions and them being his blood relatives. What do you think the husband could’ve done differently to be exonerated?
No lie, I consider Guelph to be part of Kitchener-Waterloo.... can you tell I wasn't very popular when I was in the region? :P
Sure, that’s totally understandable, but it’s not the way everyone feels
They were calling her fat and ugly…
Yes and? why would you engage with people who try to secretly insult you in front of your face.

Her in-laws suck in every language
Totally not the same situation but close enough. My in-laws cannot stand the people their kids married or our families. For example, my kids birthday party was 2 weeks ago and they did not say a word to my family the entire time (~3 hours). They haven't in the last 4 years of knowing my family said more than "nice to meet you" to anyone in my family and then shit talk behind their backs. Same goes for my SIL and BIL who married in and their families, they'll shit talk but won't actually talk to them.

Hell my SIL (married in) was in the room with our MIL, my BIL (husband's brother), my husband, and I; MIL asked BIL a question about SIL rather than asking SIL directly. She and my FIL ask my husband things about me in front of me and have done so for our entire 9 year relationship. It's like a last resort for them to talk directly to the 3 of us who married into the family unless we're the ones starting the conversations.

It's extremely abnormal but obviously possible. OP could be like me in that it's easier to let them do/say/believe whatever  than cause a big scene after it being obvious they don't care for her. I find it very hard to believe OPs husband didn't notice until she pointed it out though, at least my husband and his siblings are like "you're being fucking weird just ask them, you've known BIL for 23 years, SIL for 16, and *me* for 9"
See? We don't even know how to spell it properly!
My husband had only heard a few and when he did he would tell my ILs that it was rude. He didn't do much but it still helped. I'm not sure why they don't like me, but I think it might be because they are very anti-American and Canada is pretty close to America. I've heard them curse out Americans and call Canada the "51st American state." I could be wrong but this seems the most likely to me. As soon as something else happens I'l make an update!
Exactly this used to happen to me when I lived there and was trying to learn German. I would say something in German with an obvious atrocious accent, and suddenly everyone would be falling over themselves trying to speak English with me, with varying degrees of success. I had to ask people multiple times to please bear with me and my bad German, as it won't get any better if I'm only ever speaking English
But if she is attempting to speak to them in German why would they assume she can't understand what they are saying even if she wasn't fluent?
Check OP's comments, she never once spoke German with them, only English. In her own words, "I was never planning to let them know that I spoke German." So yeah she's a total weirdo.
That does happen a lot. However, they would know right away as soon as a third party, like a server or a real estate agent, would speak in German to her. I really doubt all their interactions were in isolation if she's been living here for months already
This is not the same as family
Sounds like her whole family showed to the birthday party with green cut creases
And if we don’t we will make them! 


that's why Abe Simpson and his friends had to use the word dickety, as the Kaiser had stolen the word twenty.

that's really the secret to German success with words.
Well, if you look at English, it's very rare that you have synonyms that are perfectly 100% identical in meaning. Think of 'house' and 'shack' and 'cabin' and 'hut'.

If you're trying to translate, you want the word that best carries *all* of the meanings, not just the surface-level. For example, if you're trying to describe your temperature in German, you wouldn't say 'I'm hot', 'Ich bin heiß', because that idiomatically means 'I'm hot *for you*'. You stick to 'Ich bin warm' instead, because that lacks the other meanings.

ETA: If you’re planning to tell me that my German was off, don’t worry, plenty of others have done so already.
Well from the sounds of it it seems like he was not aware of what they were saying since she had to tell him about it. Or atleast that’s what i assumed
If his family is like the one from my husband they do it according to the bullying code. When no one is watching or listening they start to do it. My mil singles my husband out and starts planting her thoughts on him. It's frustrating to no end.
Why/how did the wife never speak to them in German for months though? 🤔  Seems odd
Was prob said when he wasn’t around
Get out as soon as you can, don’t waste your life
i obviously cannot speak for everybody on the planet but most multilingual people absolutely do prefer their first language. it’s very rare to find somebody who prefers to speak in their second or third language when speaking with family. that’s why many people, when they marry somebody from a different linguistic background, tend to learn the family’s language so they feel closer. 

which is why this story reads as so unbelievably fake. not knowing german and thus not speaking to the family is one thing, but knowing german and yet not speaking to the family in it? at the very least the OP sounds really insufferable lol
Hhh it is an odd Canadian word, what would it even be auf deutsch.... Kitschig maybe
This seems odd. Everyone knows canada as great neighbour to 'murica. Never heard anyone throwing canada and the USA in one pot. 
They seem very strange to me. Nearly as strange as the fact that you speak german nearly your whole life but never told them.
My partner has the same problem. We're just so used to speak English with each other by now, it's hard to kick that habit.
No clue, but it’s a super common and very annoying phenomenon.

I had it happen to me at a local restaurant in Montreal and everyone in this story was speaking French natively. We were an Esperanto club and the waiter heard us speaking Esperanto when he arrived. From that moment, he assumed we were foreigners and he had to speak in English despite everyone speaking to him in French. It took a few minutes and very strongly telling him to quit speaking English for him to realise we were speaking the same language as him with even the same accent as him.

If people somehow decide you can’t speak the language, they somehow can’t acknowledge that you do.

McDonald in Japan has English menus where you can just point things and westerners speaking perfect Japanese have reported employees getting increasingly distressed and pointing at the English menu if you ignore it and just speak Japanese.

I don’t know what it is but it happens all the time, everywhere.
It is my understanding that English is the most common second language learned throughout Europe. So, a Spanish, French, and German person would all likely converse in English. I could be incorrect in this, I have been told this as an American in the USA on calls with global offices of the companies I worked for. And this, of course, is not 100% true, as in many people do not speak english at all. The Dutch often speak French and/ or German.   

My family had exchange students, and I have also visited some of their countries: if people in Europe speak English, they seemingly would do so rather than have you butcher their language or struggle through a conversation. In Mexico, I found people will speak English to you to practice, if they are learning, rather than let you practice Spanish. But people whom I interacted with who spoke English well would help me through a question in Spanish. Sometimes laughing at me (never in a truelly mean way). Again, nothing is ever 100% true.

To add to this, I have been told a large number of Germans learn English very young and speak it almost as if it is their first language (skill level, not preference).  My sister had 3 German exchange students, which supports this. They all came speaking and writing enough to be in their grades English classes, verses ESL. 

Not knowing the breakdown of OP's ILs, they may speak English because other ILs are from other European countries, and so they speak English when all together. Or they simply assumed, and when she did speak any German, it was accented or of a variant dialect, or maybe using dated vernacular, and so they thought she was being polite. Who knows, as her husband spoke to them, and they still criticized her to her face.
Because if they are being as rude to her as says, they'd probably dismiss any attempts at her to speak it.

Also, Germans can be very particular about accents, if you speak German with an accent they see as less than, some will actually switch to English as a rude indicator that they don't think you speak "proper German". I can see them being extra dismissive of German learned in Canada coming from someone they don't like.
> a third party, like a server 

Servers are literally the worst for this. A hint of an accent and they force you into English.
It could be if you meet them once at a wedding, then see them years later for dinner and realize *during dinner* that they're talking shit about you.
It might be, if family are just not nice people who are cruel to you
And then they wore that makeup to work
I’ve gotta know what this is from.
Just string those fuckers together until you run out of breath or space on the paper 😹
Barbara barbabars has made that aboundently and beautifully apparent!!
Denotation vs connotation! Super important for translation and also makes for very funny literal translations when speaking a second/non native language
(pitching in a little off-topic as a native German speaker - be careful with "Ich bin warm" because that idiomatically means "I'm gay" 😅 - I would go with "Mir ist heiß / mir ist warm") But anyway you're totally right!
Vs dwelling vs abode vs habitation vs shelter
No, you say "mir ist warm/heiß/kalt" instead of "ich bin".
if you say "ich bin warm", you are saying that you are gay. "Mir ist warm", or "Isch han warm" if you speak Saarland dialect , using french grammer structure
I like your comment, but I think you're misremembering your German: "ich bin warm" actually kinda implies your gay. The phrasing you use ist "Mir ist warm" oder "Mir ist heiß" the difference between warm und heiß is just how hot the temperature is. The problem is "Ich bin" can't always be used as a translation for "I am" in german. "Ich bin heiß" could be read as the person thinking they themselves are sexy.
>Think of 'house' and 'shack' and 'cabin' and 'hut'.

Yet "dwelling" or "domicile" fits all of them.  However,  they would require a lot more descriptive words to tell the nature of the dwelling, whereas calling it a cabin already lets you know it is a snug little abode.
German husband does not speak German? Plot twist!
That or schadenfreude
My assumption is that they speak English, which is not at all uncommon for even non-UK Europeans, and when they went to Canada for the wedding they most likely would all be speaking English. And then when OP was around they'd speak English when speaking to her directly, assuming she didn't know German.
I wish I could.
To be honest, I absolutely prefer to talk in English rather than in portuguese with people who are on the baby stages of learning portuguese. It takes a huge effort because a lot of rules don't make sense. My friend, a Canadian interchange student, left after two whole years still not grasping what gender the chairs had. Most of my everyday talk is filled with jargons, meme references, regional wording for objects (you'd be surprised how no region in Brazil agrees about what to call common bread... And it's very far from what technically is the proper name... And if you want to watch the world burn, call a bolacha a biscoito, when they are, in fact, the same freaking thing, exactly the same, but we get mad for no reason because another region decided our name for biscuits was now a word for getting your ass whopped. Learn Portuguese, it's fun!)  

And it's time consuming to textbook talk my language because it's a nightmare. Yes, that's how we use verbs! Except for... This list of other 60 verbs that are irregular and you need to memorize. Objects have gender. Good luck, just remember them all, the shortcuts have more exceptions than the list does.
I'm with my partner for almost 3 years now, and we always spoke English with each other. They are French, I'm German. We speak each other's languages.

By now we're just used to English being the language in our relationship.
I'm from Northern Spain and I'm an average looking Spaniard. At home I have a regional accent, but due to family reasons my standard setting when out of Northern Spain is 100% pure vanilla Castilian Spanish, like you'd hear from a TV newscaster. I am a voice actress and have recorded teaching materials, that's how standardised my accent is. 

In Málaga, by myself, I had a couple times where people would speak English to me and after I answered in Spanish it's like it didn't register and they kept speaking English to me. That only happened about once or twice per day, though.

Two years ago I went to Alicante with my mom and husband, both of whom look Central European. When I was with them it was just almost impossible in the city center to get any server to speak Spanish back to me so I gave up. 

This year I went to the Canary Islands with my husband and stepson, both Polish. When I answered back in Spanish to the parasailing guy he said "wow, congrats, your Spanish is great!" to which I told him it better be since I'm from [my hometown] and we had some laughs. He was so convinced I was a foreign tourist that he heard an accent that wasn't there.

Meanwhile when I took my husband to my hometown, which received a ton of tourism but all of it domestic, everyone spoke to him in Spanish even after being told he didn't speak Spanish. We never have any non-Spanish speaking foreigners around so it's very hard to switch to the mentality of "this person doesn't understand my language".
This is such a classic Montreal story \[except for the esperanto, love that.\] I'm francophone and my mother is anglo \[she speaks fluently but with an accent\] so I'm sadly familiar with the phenomenon of folks who insist on switching to English ASAP. I wondered if that had happened to OP with them--it's sometimes done kindly and often done condescendingly by native speakers.
A server or cashier will never greet someone in English unless the person is obnoxiously American. Switching after noticing the accent, 100%, but generally, they wouldn't know until you speak
I am a jelly donut- JFK.
Well I didn't know that but I'll definitely start using it to mess with people.
That's quiiiiiite outdated though, i doubt many (younger) people know that.
To be fair to myself, I was taught this sixteen years ago, so even if my memory was perfect the slang could’ve changed in the meantime.

Thanks for the correction, though! :)
Right? This whole story requires so much suspension of disbelief. What got me was, when he told the family to knock off the insulting comments in German, which he apparently had not witnessed, this didn't tip them off that she speaks German? And just in general, if you are a Canadian marrying a German, and you meet his family, wouldn't your knowledge of German be one of the first things you would lead with?

Also, I think OP meant "hockey addict," not "hokey addict." But this is something Americans say about Canadians. Subject to correction by someone with firsthand knowledge, I'm skeptical that this is an insult that would occur to a German.
somebody who has known german their whole life, picked up things said passing by, lives in germany, is able to fluently tell people off in german and is teaching her own son german is not somebody "in the baby stages of learning"
La loi 101 donne le droit à *tous* de se faire servir en français, pas uniquement ceux qui ont l’accent local ou qui maitrisent parfaitement la langue.
She speaks German as a main language, but she's originally Canadian. She probably does have an accent. I know plenty of people who grew up bilingual in a non-primarily-English country and speak English natively and still have an accent more similar to wherever they grew up.
"It's a good thing he didn't travel much that trip, he could have been a Hamburger and a Frankfurter too!" - Eddie Izard
Someone did point out that it might not be as commonly used as it was once - but in any case it's one of those funny examples where a common mistake could become awkward :D
Maybe it depends on the region. In my region of Austria it's definitely still used as an insult (or sometimes as a way to greet a friend, because some people like calling each other names). Not sure about the southwest and Germany :)
Sorry for the confusion btw! I should have worded that mess better, lol.

 (I do get a little carried away about the wonders of the Portuguese language. Absolutely unnecessarily complex, no one agrees about rules, each country transformed the language to something even more confusing and nobody agrees on anything. Super fun. I love my language. Such a messy creature with several heads... couldn't be more adorable!).
I didn't say that in any way or form. I was only replying to a comment about being more comfortable in your native language sometimes isn't worth the trouble. It was a personal thing unrelated to the main topic.
AITA for not ordering any food so I wouldn't have to split the bill?
I(27M) have been apart of a small friend group, around 8 people total, basically since college.

For some background, 2 people from the group, Susan and Greg, are just absolute leeches. Going out for lunch? Expect them to order the most expensive on the menu then feed you some sob story about their finances and then dumb half the bill on you.

Last weekend, Dan, one of the people from the group, told me about a casual dinner . I told him how if Susan or Greg were there I wouldn't be able to come. He tells me that they would be there but I should just put my opinions aside and come just once.

This is kind of where I might be an AH. I agreed with him and told him I would be there. I show up and we all get to talking.

Everyone began putting in their orders, most of them spent about $40. There were only about 6 people there. When it gets to Susan and Greg, they both order expensive dishes, around $200. When it was my turn to order, everyone looked at me, but I just pick up the menu and point to the $4 Miller Lite and sent the waiter away. Dan asked why I hadn't ordered anything and all I said was that I lost my appetite. The other 2 friends got up as well to cancel their orders and just have drinks.

After the main courses came out, I saw Susan and Greg picking at their food. The waiter then brings over the check. Greg then grabs the waiter and asks him to split the check 6 ways. I stand up and correct him saying the check was to be split 3 ways. Greg looks at me confused and asks why since we "always" split the bill. I reminded him that 3 of us had not eaten any food so we would just be paying for our drinks.  So basically at the end of the night, Dan, who probably only ate around $50 worth of food, was stuck with a $146.98 check at the end. (Yes, I remember the exact number.) I swear I saw his jaw drop when he picked that receipt up.

I slid a $10 towards the check, said goodbye everyone, and walked out.

The next morning, I found my phone full of texts from Greg and Susan telling me I was an AH for not ordering any food and forcing them to pay  more than they had accounted for. I honestly laughed because the steaks alone were more than what they had paid  but to each their own right?

I also got a lot of messages from Dan saying that I could have just not came instead of pulling that stunt and getting him stuck with an outrageous bill.

Edit: At this restaurant, the bar is separate so drinks are on a separate bill if that makes sense. And if anyone is concerned about leaving a tip, I live in Australia.

Edit 2: Hey guys just wanted to clarify some things:

1. 90% of restaurants where I live they don't do separate checks and might separate the bill for you if you're lucky. BTW. This post is in AUD, so if you want the amounts in USD, you have to convert it.
2. Dan could have easily asked Greg and Susan to transfer him the money if he wanted but he's always been about helping them through their "financial hardship" even though they're just using him and keeps dragging me into it. I admit what I did was immature but I'm tired of being forced to play along. It's his money and if he wants to spend it on them, that's fine, but I'm not paying for them.
3. Also Dan's a really good friend of mine, albeit blind AF. I was just trying to get him to see what kind of people he was "helping". I will admit it was a tad bit petty.
4. Thank you for the gold.
Welcome to /r/AmITheAsshole. Please view our [voting guide here](https://www.reddit.com/r/AmItheAsshole/wiki/faq#wiki_what.2019s_with_these_acronyms.3F_what_do_they_mean.3F), and remember to use **only one** judgement in your comment.

OP has offered the following explanation for why they think they might be the asshole:

 > AITA for not ordering any food at a dinner with friends so I wouldn't have to split the bill with 2 of the friends that I know will take advantage of me?

Help keep the sub engaging!

#Don’t downvote assholes!

Do upvote interesting posts!

 [Click Here For Our Rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/AmItheAsshole/about/rules) and [Click Here For Our FAQ](https://www.reddit.com/r/AmItheAsshole/wiki/faq)

##Subreddit Announcements

Follow the link above to learn more

---

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose/?to=/r/AmItheAsshole) if you have any questions or concerns.*

*Contest mode is 1.5 hours long on this post.*
Even if you were actually not hungry, I would still say NTA. They clearly premeditated this whole event and expected others to take the financial fall for their lifestyle. Hope Dan opens his eyes, but right now, they seem superglued shut. Good for you though.
NTA

"The next morning, I found my phone full of texts from Greg and Susan telling me I was an AH for not ordering any food and forcing them to pay more than they had accounted for."

Dan was the one who told you to put your opinions aside & just come, right?

Well handled. Your friends must've thought so too because they followed suit. 

Dan got caught out. What I'm wondering though is why any of you continue socializing/being friends with people who not only constantly leech off you but *openly admit* to doing so.
NTA. I thought what you did was brilliant. You started by saying you would not attend if the leeches were there, your friend Dan wanted you to come anyway, so you did, but on your own terms. The moment you ordered only a beer, that was a signal that every adult at the restaurant should have recognized—especially because the bar bill is separate from the food—that you were not eating, two others were not eating, thus obviously not splitting a bill for dinner. I bet Dan will not be so quick to include Susan and Greg again.
NTA. People saying YOU stuck Dan with a big bill are probably just like these two users ordering outside of their means. 
I had friends that did this when I was in college, working 2 jobs, technically 3, just to scrape by. I was living on ramen but they would insist I go out. I’d get a free glass of water and nothing else. I sometimes could’ve ordered the cheapest thing, but they always split the check for both food and drinks and tip (America so asking to separate the checks is normal and done at many places here). So I just refused to partake. They complained after a couple times and I was like hey you all know I’m broke so is it my company you’re wanting or what little money I have??
I no longer talk to any of them. 
IF you go to the next outing, call them out. Ask if they have enough to fully cover what they’re gonna order and if not to please order something else
NTA

Is it not possible to ask the waiter for separate checks—i.e., everyone gets their own check for what they ordered—ahead of time? While some people think this is a *little* tacky, it's not anywhere near as tacky as ordering a meal that costs five times as much as anyone else's, and expecting them to cover it.
>I should just put my opinions aside and come just once.  

>I could have just not came instead of pulling that stunt and getting him stuck with an outrageous bill.      

Dan needs to make up his mind lol. What he means is, you should have come and paid for Susan and Greg's food even though you were clear from the jump that you wouldn't. NTA but time to stop hanging out with these people.
NTA I ALWAYS ask for a separate check when I go out. I am not paying for your food!  The fact that they ADMITTED that they didn't intend to pay for their own food would make me NEVER go out with them again. 

you did nothing wrong. I would send their text admitting that they didn't intend to pay for their own food to ANYONE who is complaining. Dan is the one who told you to suck it up and come for the evening!
INFO:
Why hasn’t anyone tried telling Greg and Susan that they repeatedly order expensive meals and make everyone pay for it? Why not confront the freeloaders? How many times has this happened?
Wait, Dan knows how these people are, talked you into coming even though you didn't want to, and then got mad when he got stuck with the big tab?

Is Dan an idiot?

You are NTA
NTA, you all know they are manipulating the situation to live an extravagant lifestyle on other people's dime. Just stop eating out with them so they learn to live within their means. Some people need a hard dose of reality. 
NTA

My only quibble with this is you could have ordered an Aussie beer instead of an American beer. Is a Coopers not good enough for you? ;D

But I don't drink beer so what the hell do I know. ¯\\\_(ツ)\_/¯
NTA. I had a co-worker like that. If the company was picking up the tab or if he knew it was a "split the bill" meal, he took full advantage plus ensured he could take a doggie bag of at least half his food home. Once, he only ate the appetizers they ordered at a company lunch and took his whole meal home. I can't stand people like that.

I did, however, have a friend group for a while where we took turns picking up the entire tab. No one took advantage of the situation and if one person had significantly more than the others, that person chipped in. We even discussed who was picking up the tab before we sat down so it was clear. That was a good group.

This Greg and Susan are not friends. Never were. You used the word "leeches" accurately. And, Dan? Dan is an enabler. He pushed you into going while knowing how Greg and Susan would act and how you felt about it. Dan is not a friend either.

There are times in our lives when we have to leave 'friends' behind. It's not always easy but it needs to happen. I know I've had a hard time with that in my life. NTA.
Where on earth are you dining at in Australia where the mains are $200, but you can apparently get an imported beer for $4?
NTA. I’d respond to the text “I’m sorry. I’m confused. Are you mad at ME that you were responsible for paying for the food that You ordered for yourself?  How can you possibly expect others to pay for what you ate?”
You went to "college", you ordered Miller Lite but this is in Australia?
As an Australian I have reason to believe this is fake.... the tax on alcohol is stupidly high and I don't think I've ever seen an alcoholic drink be $4 unless you're talking about a cheap and nasty shot, which would be gone in seconds.
We also don't say Check.... Cheque? Any kind of those things aren't used unless you're talking about a list generally.
As an Australian, this feels fake, because 
1) I rarely encounter restaurants that don’t allow split bills
2) I have never seen Miller Lite on a menu
3) I have never seen a beer sold at a restaurant for as little as $4. If such a thing exists, it’s certainly not at a venue where the cost for 3 peoples’ meals add up to $440
NTA  
I'd say you were clever and creative in finding a solution to the well-known leech problem. You didn't force anyone to do anything, they made their decisions and faced the consequences. If anything, Greg and Susan have only themselves to blame for ordering pricey dishes and expecting everyone else to foot their bill.Dan's reaction is somewhat understandable, but he knew the risks when he asked you to come. I think a lesson was learned that day, albeit a rather expensive one.
NTA. Glad those two friends caught on to what you were doing. They were probably tired of paying for the leeches too.
NTA

Dan didn’t want to listen when you told him the problem, so you had to show him. Some people learn that way and Dan certainly learned at that dinner! 

In the future immediately ask for a separate check. This was Susan and Greg can’t claim to be blind sighted. Or, maybe run up the bill and stiff it on them.
NTA I wish I was a fly on the wall during that that sounds absolutely hilarious and I'm glad your other friends clued in on it as well without planning. Tell them womp womp
Fake post. 

FYI for next time, Miller Lite is not a common beer here and even if I was available, I can guarantee you it wouldn't be $4. Not anywhere in the country. 

There is plenty of other language in there that is a dead giveaway but I'll let you figure that out. 

Try again.
Hmmmmm. In Australia. Orders a $4 miller lite. And the total is $146.98. None of that is Australian pal.
NTA this is why i refuse to split the bill. If I pay for someone else it is a gift and something I have agreed to before ordering. Otherwise I will never ever pay for someone else. They are totally right in ordering whatever they want as long as they pay for it, just like you are. You wanted to order a drink. That has nothing to do with them. You handled it fine. You werent rude, you didnt call them out directly. You just ordered a drink and paid for it. Nothing wrong with that
YTA

$4 for a beer in Aus? You ordered a Miller lite? This does not make any sense to me, this is pure BS.

Edit: changed to YTA because this story is a clearly (Aussies get it) a fabrication and only AH make up stories.
NTA.

What "stunt" exactly did you pull? Not participating in a pair of leaches plans to scam "friends" out of their money? You guys are not "friends" to these two, you all are "marks". That's a term con men use for their victims.

Seems to me that the times I hear of this kind of thing happening is from friend groups from college. I'm from a blue collar group and over the course of my life, NONE of my friends have ever tried a stunt like that. They'd be called out on the spot, and ostracized out of the group for trying to scam the rest of us. 

Anyway, never apologize for protecting your family, friend, or finances. The old code of conduct, fuck with any of those 3, and you fired the first shot in a war you can never win.
Good luck dude in cutting out the dead weight in your social circles.
$4 Miller Lite in Australia, no splitting of checks, but $150+ steaks?

Who you trying to kid mate?
Mathematically, the bill wouldn’t have been any less outrageous for them had you guys ordered the same priced food.
I do not understand the idea of someone ordering $200 worth of food and someone ordering $20-40, and splitting the cheque 50/50. That’s some straight up bullshit.
What restaurant is this in Australia that has Miller Lite (at all, for a start) for $4?

And $200 mains?

Sounds like BS.
Who sells a miller lite in Australia, let alone for four dollars?
Why are all your group so spineless?  Why do they not
call out the two when they order very expensive food
instead of being considerate like the rest of the group?
Why have you all put up with this so long?

But surely NTA for forcing the two big spenders to finally
pay for most of their meal.  And maybe Dan will keep
his opinion to himself next time.  LOL  As for the others
who took your cue and ended up only having drinks,
good on them for finally waking up.
Did you call Greg and Susan out? “Why would the bill be higher than you expected when you’re the one who ordered?” And also “we’re sick of covering for your expensive tastes. Order within the range of others or expect to pay more moving forward.”
Obviously NTA, but why are you drinking Miller Lite and where did you find it in Australia at a restaurant for only $4?
This is BS...

1. No one drinks miller lite in Australia 
2. If they were available, they would cost more than $4. Alcohol is crazy prices here!
NTA. Dan is enabling the grifters.
NTA. Dan is mad because you made your point at his expense. He probably invited you to help ease th burden of your two freeloading friends. AND you never order more than you can pay, so Greg and Susan saying they had to pay more than they expected is stupid. They were counting on everyone taking the brunt of their bill off their plate. You were 100% in the right, that's easy to see because two other people followed your lead. They were smelling what you were stepping in. Maybe Dan will be a little less eager to invite Greg and Susan. Serves him right for pretending you're the asshole here.
NTA, but I don't understand why everyone is dancing around the pink elephant in the room instead  of clearly telling greg and Susan that their shenanigans of dumping their expensive orders on others are obvious by now and to stop the BS. Or why Dan who was clearly warned by you didn't pull a uno reverse card and let Greg  and Susan choose and then say - "great choice, I think I'll go along and take the same" 
Would be an  even more expensive bill but at least  he would have a spent his third on himself instead of cross financing these sneaky leeches.
NTA

Beautiful, you exposed the dynamic and you ensured the leeches and the enabler (Dan) felt the consequences.

I don’t get why Greg and Susan had the nerve to contact you to berate you for not subsidizing their meal. They still paid less than what they ate and they were basically complaining not more people were subsidizing them.

But the guy who puzzles me most is Dan who first convinced you to come and who was aware of your dislike of being forced to subsidize others and when you actually acted on that he is complaining about him subsidizing such a big part for Susan and Greg. It feels like he invited you to cover part of the bill. 

His comment about it being better if you had not come shows he knows Greg and Susan are leeches. It is implied they will only restrict themselves when there are fewer people having food because if they order too much it means they pay a relatively high cost per person.

I believe all this puts Dan on the same AH level as Greg and Susan.
I don’t get this.  Everyone knows- those leeches aren’t even subtle about it, yet your friend group continues to enable the bad behavior of “Greg and Susan”.  And “Dan” who knows you’re sick of it insists you go anyway and now he’s mad because he had to subsidize more of Greg and Susan’s bill than he had bargained for?  Why don’t you all just pay for what you order or stop inviting Greg and Susan? 

Or say “hey, I’m not going if Greg and Susan will be their because they’re leeches and I’m no longer willing to subsidize their champagne tastes.”  Oh wait, you tried that, Dan insisted you go anyway and was unhappy with the outcome.

I go out with friends all the time and even when the server doesn’t split the check for us, we still manage to figure out what we owe and pay the bill accordingly.   It’s not that difficult.
All fake. There is no Miller Lite in Australia and if it was available, we wouldn't drink that shit.
YTA for not making up a story that has not been posted before.
I just don’t understand what’s so difficult about saying ‘separate checks pls’ at the beginning of the meal. 

NTA but the whole ‘split the check evenly’ thing is so outdated and causes so many problems, and it’s so easily solved.
NTA. You guys need to stop splitting the tab. When Greg says split it 6 ways, someone should have said separate checks please. If they are doing 6 checks, pay for what you ordered
NTA. I am the person who will always order the most expensive stuff at a dinner with friends, but I will ALWAYS pay for it. Expecting anyone else to be responsible for that is an AH move. You are not the AH for not wanting to fall in that trap again, especially since you were upfront with Dan about your concerns.

I have a group of 5 I dine out with regularly. One person puts their card down and Venmo requests everyone else’s portion, and usually I put my card down since I have the most expensive portion. We split appetizers equally and then charge everyone individually for their entree, dessert, and drinks. That way it’s super fair.
NTA dan could have easily opened his mouth and asked for his own separate check.
NTA!

I love how your friend, Dan, is annoyed AT YOU but not at Susan or Greg.

ETA: Whenever I go out with friends or a friend, I'm always the one paying with my card cause most places in Australia don't do split bills & then they would transfer me their share. I hated doing this because sometimes they'd forget to & I hate asking them to transfer.

One time, I went out with a friend & I paid & told her to transfer her half to me. Anyways, we ate then walked around. We went home & I realised that she forgot to transfer so I messaged her to remind her. She transfers me the money but then after that, she kind of became distant 🙃😂
Malicious compliance at its best.
NTA. Susan and Greg are jerks for making their “friends” cover their meals. You tried to not go, and Dan told you to basically suck it up and go. It’s good that those leaches actually had to pay more than they planned to. And maybe Dan will finally realize what jerks Greg and Susan are.
NTA

Dan too at any time could have said “what I’ve eaten costs only 50 and I’m not splitting 3 ways” to Greg and Susan. It is entirely on him that he got stuck with such a high bill. You didn’t do anything wrong. Plus you weren’t the only one who opted out of ordering food.
Splitting the bill equally is the stupidest practice ever.  Especially when a couple of people are taking advantage.  Everyone should pay for what they ordered.  NTA
NTA and i cackled at your stunt. Just reply to the leeches that you are done paying for their expensive food. They always order things twice as expensive as everyone else and therefor often raise the total above what you pay for a single meal. 
If they cant pay a meal in full on their own. Dont order it. Its THAT simple.
Id also send this as a reply in a group text and attach a screenshot of their message to you for all to see.
My solution is pretty old school. Bring cash and pay for your share that way. Whoops, I forgot my card.
I don’t understand this concept of splitting the bill anyway. Where I’m from, you pay for what you order and nothing more. We don’t add up the entire bill and divide it by how many people ate. That’s just weird to me and opens up people to be taken advantage of buy people like Susan and Greg who expect everyone else to subsidize their orders every time.
where are these casual diners that have $100 dishes? i could order a surf and turf meal here and it wouldnt be $100 each.
NTA. That was a tactically brilliant move, and two others saw and were similarly smart.

You need to halve the group size. Leave out the moochers and their enabler. The other two people there were sensible.

Or, maybe another tactic. Next time, you and the two sensible people order equally or even more expensive meals as the moochers. Moochers pay almost full price and Dan gets hit with an exceedingly high bill. He can't complain that you didn't eat, and just maybe he will finally see the light.

Obviously, the above is a one-time thing. You don't want every meal to turn into a competitive spending event.
YTA. I can’t help but call bullshit on this whole story. Aside from the fact you seem to be friends with both the biggest leeches and biggest doormats on the planet, a restaurant where entrees range from $40-$200 but has Miller lite for $4? No place like that exists.
NTA, gosh some people are so entitled.
NTA
 
NTA - Why even hang out with any of these people?
NTA Are they even really friends? I used to be the broke friend and would always ask my friends to not split the bill equally and everyone to pay what they ordered, or at least me paying what I ordered (it wasn't even that crazy numbers, think of $20 vs $60). They wouldn't mind at all, if not even offer to pay for me so I could order something more expensive. Now that I don't have financial issues anymore, we still do it the same because they do think is the fairer.
No way are you the AH! Dan was warned but didn't think anyone but you were sick of the two scammers. So now Dan knows! NTA
You are NTA. Frankly your friends who enable this behavior are though. The two leeches need to be talked to and told that what they do is unacceptable and they shouldn't expect their "friends" to pick up any part of their bill.
You did fantastic. Great 2 more went for drinks only. Dan is an idiot not understanding what happened. Dump S & G. Not your buddies.
“Ok Dan. Let’s play this not the other way around. What if I had ordered the $200 steak too? Then everyone but you changed their order to the steak? Now you’re paying $181.25. Fair?”

NTA
NTA.

And considering that two of your other friends immediately did the same as you, without promoting or pre-planning? Seems like just about everyone is fed up to the back teeth with Greg and Susan. 

Dan is a grown adult, he either could have spoken up when he saw how expensive the bill was, or when the Leeches put in their order for $200 meals. He knew you didn't want to spend time with them and bullied you into it anyway- this feels very much like a "play stupid games, win stupid prizes" lesson for him.
I live in the middle of the midwest, and here the waiter always ask how we want the bill.  I am shocked how many people on here have the group split the check evenly, we always do separate checks unless someone is treating.  I am thankful we don't split the checks evenly, because it causes hard feelings!
NTA.. it's *BYOB in these tight times. *Buy your own booze(food) dump the losers who don't respect other people's wallets.
NTA/ you don’t have to pay to feed your friends. 

If Dan feels that’s important to him, to be used as an ATM by his buddies, that’s his prerogative. 

Maybe Dan will make another choice next time. I think your execution was flawless and the fact that other friends caught on and did the same thing immediately shows how recurrent this issue is for your friend group.
NTA - if you haven't texted those leeches back say somwthing along the lines of "I'm the AH? You 2 are always ordering super expensive meals and using us to supplement the cost of it you damn leeches. They won't say it to your face but we are all tired of you 2 taking advantage of us. So sorry you had to pay for your own keal for once which you actually still didn't since Dan still took on a chunk of the cost the 2 cheapskates. If you are just using us for making your food cheaper then do us a favour and find some new people to leech off of".
NTA
I use to go out for dinner and drinks with my friend I've known since first grade and a woman we met in college. My friend and I had a very similar upbringing. Our college friend is a trust fund baby. 


After college when we'd meet up for dinner and drinks we wouldn't split the check but calculate what each of us owed. Trust fund baby only gave the exact amount of what she ordered. Leaving my childhood friend and I to cover tax and tip. 

It wasn't a lot of money but it was the principle of it. We stopped inviting her out with us. Even if we did ask for separate checks shed never tip. Her prerogative but damn it at least be polite to the server during the meal. 

In college a bunch of us in the dorm would take turns ordering pizza. One or two people would pay and the next time someone else paid. It was always around the same amount. Guess who somehow managed not to be around when it was time to pay?
NTA and bleh to Greg and Susan. I

Do feel a bit sorry for Dan but he could have spoken up and said he was just paying for his. 

Depending on how much a friend Dan is, id try clear the air there.
Ok since splitting the cheque separately doesn’t seem to be a thing where you are, look at the menu ahead of time, decide what main and drink you want. Figure out the math, let’s say it’s $40, bring $50 cash and that’s it

When you order, stick with what you picked out, when it comes time to pay, tell the server, this should cover my portion of the cheque plus a small tip for the hassle of me paying separately. 

When they try to force you to pay extra, just show them your empty wallet and say “sorry folks that’s all I can afford today” take your credit a debit cards out ahead of time, stick them in a separate pocket or leave them in your car

As for Dan, tell him “no one forced you to pay for their food, your a grown ass man, grow a spine and learn to say no”

NTA but you need to be sneakier than these mooches

ETA: and for the two mooches? When they complain about not being able to afford their meal. Tell them “that sounds like a you problem, I know my budget and I stayed within it. Sounds like you need to learn to be more responsible with your money and not expect everyone else to subsidize your meals”

Be snarky about it. They don’t deserve “nice”
NTA if they have a financial hadship they shouldn’t eat $200 steaks
Is no one else mad at the two other people who canceled their meal? They saw what you were doing and agreed. NTA
I don't even care if the waiter provided a separate check or not. I just order what I want and pay for mine. I don't play that splitting the bill crap. If my meal and drink costs 40 with tax I throw in 50. End of story.
I would never split the bill if someone ordered a $200 item. Jesus christ.
WHY DON’T YOU HAVE AN ADULT CONVERSATION WITH YOUR FRIENDS AND TELL THEM ABOUT THEIR OFF PUTING BEHAVIOR INSTEAD OF PLAYING MIND GAMES
Yeah they do this all the time, I guess I was feeling a little cheeky that night. Dan's a bit stubborn but I wouldn't be surprised if he still thinks I was in the wrong and not them.
Yep!  OP did say he wasn’t coming, but Dan told him to come, anyway.  Dan FAFOed.
Wild that Dan is mad at OP instead of the actual problem children. Can someone please explain to me why this is such a common problem?
It takes chutzpah for greg and Susan to complain about having a higher bill than they accounted for when they're receiving a discount
Yes I agree with the premeditation. This was planned. You are all being played for patsies if this keeps happening.
> They clearly premeditated this whole event and expected others to take the financial fall for their lifestyle. 

And the fact that their ploy didn't work is about the only reason they (the pricey couple, not the third chump) could have to get mad about it. It's not a _good_ reason, but there's none better.
I’m wondering why a group of adults is so incapable of communicating with one another.  If I were put in that situation and I’d ordered food and the bill comes and they say just split it 6 ways I would very bluntly say to the people who ordered expensive dishes “your food cost 3 times what mine did so I’m only going to pay for the actual cost of what I ate.”  If that makes me an asshole then fine I guess I won’t be going out to eat with those friends anymore but I feel like it just makes me an adult who expresses themself.
Exactly. The reply to G&S should have been “Well perhaps you shouldn’t have knowingly ordered more than you had accounted for!”
"Forcing them to paymore than they had accounted for"

But still not the full cost of what they actually ordered...
Might be a cultural thing. Being thought of as  rude or cheap may be considered worse than being a leach?

These stories make me appreciate my fellow countrymen's  rudeness and skimpiness! Although of course we prefer to call it 'direct' and 'financially sound'...
Greg and Susan probably suggest to Dan let’s catch up for dinner, and then get Dan to organise it all. OP and the other two should organise a dinner and invite Dan.
NTA OP should just go out with the other two that just ordered drinks in the future. They clearly share OP's feelings on the matter and wouldn't be leeches.
NTA. Your approach was clever and fair. Susan and Greg’s entitlement is the real issue here. Dan should have been more considerate of your feelings and the group’s dynamic. Hopefully, this teaches them to be more responsible.
Hilarious how two other friends realized it and also backed out because they knew exactly what Greg and Susan were going to do, and Dan is once again the only person blind enough to not see it
I dunno Dan sounds like an absolute melt.
Not to mention the part where OP informed Dan he would not be coming if Greg and Susan would be there,Dan begged OP to come,  and then flipped the script and said “you shouldn’t have come”. 

I’m sorry, but those two thinking that he had an obligation to pay for food he didn’t order is beyond my understanding. There is no possible way to justify that. And their shock when they got a bill for food they ordered. Did they not look at the price at all before choosing their meal?
"I'll have the 24K gold tomahawk steak."

"Nice, can you afford that though? You're paying for it yourself after all."

"I'll have the vegetable salad instead."
That’s such a good way of finding out who to stay friends with! When I was in college, I was so broke and would do the same thing, go to hang out but only get water and leave a few dollars I scraped together for a tip. The people I’m still buds with nearly 20 years later were the ones who would share with me the food they didn’t feel like finishing and never made me feel bad for munch on saltine cracker and ketchup mini sandwiches (yaknow, because those things are commonly free 🤣)
Had a roommate like that during my AIT after basic training. Food was free in the defac for soldiers, but she would always want to go out to eat at the restaurants on base. Which wouldn't be a problem except she was dealing with some kind of problem with her bank that caused a freeze on her account. For the first several months on base she had no money, but kept wanting to eat out. I didn't mind defac food and would rather eat for free.
It's not very common in Australia, its just usually common courtesy to just order within what everyone else is ordering so you can split the check at the end. Most restaurants refuse as well but I get your point.
I'd take a 'little tacky' (why, tho?) easily over the outrageous audacity of trying to impose a food bill on people that haven't even eaten. I'd insist on my separate bill, if the restaurant is unable or unwilling to accommodate that, then I can decide to just not eat (which means the restaurant is losing money and had seats occupied that people who want to eat (and doend money) are waiting for - their loss.

In and case, Susan and Greg learned their lesson. Good for OP to stand up for himself, the fact that other people opted out too shows that their are annoyed with that behavior as well.
There's literally nothing tacky about properly splitting a bill by what people actually bought, it's just the normal way to do shit.
I grew up in an area where one check came and no one ever had it split by person. Where I live now, servers assume they will have a check for each person and you need to tell them if multiple people will be on the same check. It’s so nice to not have to deal with the Susan’s and Greg’s of the world.
>While some people think this is a *little* tacky

If they think that, they're wrong. It's not "tacky", it's normal and sensible.
Not every restaurant is open to that as it just complicates the order process for them. At the end of the day it is not the restaurant's responsibility to sort out friend's interpersonal issues. 


Edit: Since I'm getting questions and I'm not an expert on this subject I will direct you to this thread that has experiences of people in the hospitality industry as to why they don't like splitting bills: https://www.reddit.com/r/melbourne/comments/14hj95d/why_do_restaurants_refuse_to_split_bills/
Never understood how it’s tacky to just pay for what you order…. ?
NTA. This used to happen in our friendship group, then at some point people got fed up and we all now pay for our own. We don’t even do rounds anymore in the pub, because some people would just take the piss and not get their round when it was their turn. 

I remember once for professional reasons we were late for one of the lad’s bday party at a gastro pub and we had to leave early (we told our friend in advance that we couldn’t be there long). When we got to the gastro pub, we noticed they’d opened a tab. They’d been drinking expensive drinks and eating for hours and were going to carry on well after we left. So we were very clear that we’d pay for ours separately, which we did before we left and sent them a photo of the receipt in case the pub charged for our food when we’d already paid (mistakes happen!).

The next day, we heard lots of complaints from multiple people in the group who were really pissed off at having to split the bill. We were sooooo relieved we didn’t have to be a part of that!! 
> While some people think this is a little tacky

The only people who think it is tacky are the leaches who only worry about how much they can push onto the group, and rich snobs who've never had to think about how much things cost.
Dan wanted him to go so the extra cost of paying for the freeloaders would be split among more people. Dan knew what was going to happen and wanted other people to help him shoulder the burden. It backfired and now he is butthurt.
Exactly. OP did not “get him stuck” with a bill. Dan is a grown man and doesn’t need OP to rescue him. Dan got himself stuck with the bill cuz he’s a sucker who is bending over for these losers who keep using him. No one is under any obligation to keep funding these assholes’ dinners. NTA
Exactly. Unless I'm treating someone, I always get my own check and pay my own bill. This will splitting of the bill thing is just so complicated and creates problems just like this. OP handled it beautifully.
Right? In my friend group, if someone tried to pull that, we would all be like “what? Fuck that, you guys ordered $200 meals, all I got was a beer. Maybe if our meals were comparable in cost, sure,” and everyone would give that friend shit for being stupid, making it suuuuper clear they can’t get away with that. 

Real friends aren’t afraid to call you on your bullshit. But also real friends wouldn’t pull this whole situation either.
This. That's exactly what I was thinking. I don't consider you a "friend" if I can't have open and honest communication with you. It sounds like everyone at that table felt the same way, yet no one had the courage to speak up. Without a doubt, everyone in my friend group would have looked at Susan and Greg and said, "We love you two but not today, sweethearts, and never again if you want to keep hanging with us."
Woah woah woah, are you suggesting *speaking* to someone who did something that bothered you? But that’s not passive aggressive or needlessly dramatic!
It ain't.

* I've never seen Miller Lite served here, and even if it was, not at a place with dinner servings of that price. If OP had said VB or XXXX then maybe.

* Miller Lite is 6 bucks from a bottle shop at minimum, so four bucks for an import beer is Sus.

* We don't call it College here, it's University or "Uni". 

* We don't call it a Check either, it's the "Bill" or "Total", or more colloquially the "Damage" as in damage to your bank balance. 

* Seperate drinks from food? Possibly... If they were ordering from a bistro bar I'd say yes, but not at $100 meals, of which I've seen about 2 in my life, and neither of those places are "casual lunch" places, they're high end Steak Venues. Which does correlate to OP about the steaks, but...

* To my knowledge there's exactly 2 venues that are walk in venues in Australia with a Steak dish to match that price - one in Brisbane called The 'Norman Hotel' and the other in Melbourne called 'Rare' - and I know for a fact neither serve Miller Lite. I don't know about Sydney tbh, no one with taste goes there. 

Conclusion; OP is embellishing the post I reckon. Going by the account being 11 hours old and scatter-shotting the same post half a dozen times in this sub, imma go ahead and say it's contributing to the Dead Internet Theory, Karma Farming at the least.

Source; Aussie with 25 years in Hospitality Industry.
This whole thing reads as if a teenager wrote it with no idea how adult friendships typically function
I’ve read loads of variations of this story and it always plays out the same way. Everyone is aware that a person/couple are deliberately ordering more than everyone else and stiffing them with the bill, but no one ever confronts them about it.

If this happened as much as people say it did you could guarantee that someone would pull them on it and ask why they feel it’s ok to leech off everyone else.
Dan was looking for more victims to share the load with, lol.
I kind of judge OP for being friends with these people. I simply cannot understand how they can live with themselves and how people around them can stand this without saying something. I am by no means a confrontational person but I would never ever stand for this.
Haha this made me laugh. I just picked the cheapest one on the menu. Not sure why since it was imported. Do love me a coopers tho.
May e would have if story wasn't so fake.
Oh if the company is picking up the tab, fair game! Your company is not a friend and it’s a tax write off for them, go as wild as you can without your boss noticing/caring.
I think calling Dan just an enabler is charitable at best. He just didn't want to be stuck paying the \~$150 all by himself. He's just an indirect leech.
If the company is picking up the tab I’m going apeshit as well. As apeshit as you can go as a vegetarian anyway.
Good pick up. Has to be fake. A beer hasn’t cost $4 in Australia in a very long time .
Fake as fuck.....
Yep spot on. Whole story is fake but good for him spending 30 mins wiring an essay for internet points
Also, it should be spelled cheque and not check
I'm calling bullshit on this story!!
I saw damn near this exact same story a few weeks ago on one of those TikToks that just read reddit posts.  Very small details were the only difference.
Also we don’t use check, we use cheque. 
A beer for $4 too
I absolutely thought of this. Like, maybe there's a state in Australia I haven't spent much time in where places sell Miller Lite, but I've literally never ever seen it sold in any bar or pub in Australia, and I've lived here my entire life. Like, maybe I just haven't noticed it, but I've been to a lot of bars and pubs and been with a lot of people who ordered many many beers, and never ever seen it.
And the other 27yo Australians are named Greg and Susan?
I have never ever seen a Millar lite in Vic, nsw, qld or wa. No way this post is real. Especially not a fancy restaurant where you can buy $200 mains.
Had to go waaay too far down to find someone catching this.
OP isn't replying to any of these threads that called him out for being a fraud. 30 mins writing an essay for fake internet points. What a life
Also what entree could possibly cost $200? What did they order, the gold dusted lobster 6-pack?
Would have been more believable if it'd been a vb. I feel like most restaurants dont come up to discuss your cheque at the table either? They just quietly leave it and then/or you have whoever is paying go up to whoever is taking payments at the computer/register even in the cbd. Idk about the more expensive places though.
I've never heard Aussies referring to uni as "college" either tbh. Not sure if the OP was trying to cater global audience but this post just feels off.
All the posts on this sub are fake. You’re supposed to play along as a thought exercise.
I have also never had an issue splitting a bill in Aus.
And why leave $10 for a $4 beer (even if it is true). We don’t need to tip and if we did, it’d be a few $ max!
Can't even get a miller lite at the american grocery store here in vic. I've never seen it in restaurants.
Good points!
Yeah no high end restaurant here selling things for 200 dollars is going to have anything on their menu that ends in cents (and if they did it definitely wouldn’t split to .98 if you split it three ways)
A liar from Liartown.
In their imagination!
Dan tried to enable the grifters but instead ended up paying for the grifters.
Or one person pays the bill and everyone venmos that person what they ordered. There are some apps that automatically tell you what people should pay.

Why are people still stuck 20 years ago.
Also, we don’t have Miller lite in restaurants in Australia…
Dans an idiot. He should have just paid for his meal and let the other two figure it out. Dan has only himself to blame here.
Dan’s the one who heard your objections but told you to come anyway. You kept your opinions to yourself, at least at the dinner. You also kept your wallet to yourself, which apparently he’s less pleased about, but too bad. It’s clear that the other two friends have similar problems with the leechers; if Dan wants to be the leechers’ enabler then that’s his choice, but he doesn’t get to make you do that too.

Suggest that you and the other two set up your own gatherings. Eventually invite Dan if you want and he’s willing to cooperate.
I would respond to Susan and Greg’s texts with “so I just want to clarify, you purposely ordered food that was over your budget expecting us to pay for your food for you”. Either they fess up or they backtrack, and then you can ask “how else am I supposed to interpret (his quote here)”. Tell him that it might be ok for him to disrespect his own budget, but he shouldn’t disrespect yours. 

Next time you guys go out for dinner and he’s placing a stupid order, order the exact same meal as him. (Make sure the two buddies that stuck with you are in the know). I’d like to see Susan and Greg sweat trying to figure out how to split the bill when everyone orders expensive or more expensive food than they did.  
Dan wanted you there as a cushion for his wallet. 

I refuse to be polite when someone is taking advantage of me. After the first time, when they order more expensive things than everyone else, id say "I hope you plan on paying for your meal, because I'm not going to." Fuck em if they get mad or embarrassed. They're counting on you to put up with it to avoid a scene.
You originally declined going because of them but Dan still told you to come likely thinking it’d spread costs among more people 
Susan and Greg aren’t your friends, and neither is Dan. He thinks it’s ok for Susan and Greg to continually manipulate him into paying for their meal, but when you don’t pay your “share” of Greg and Susan’s meal, he blames you and not them? You did not get Dan stuck with the bill, Greg and Susan did.
But he was the one who pushed you to go. You had already shared your discomfort about funding Susan and Greg. You did a great job of proving your point. I mean, the only real come back to Dan is asking if he genuinely feels it would have been fair to split the bill 6 ways for 3 people’s meals. This so clearly laid out Susan & Greg’s outrageous expectations. I hope this isn’t friendship ending w Dan and that you can have a genuine conversation about it. NTA. Also, well played
[removed]
I would just tell Dan straight up. Anytime I come to these meals and G&S are there - I will only be drinking as I cannot afford to pay 5x my meal to make sure they can order expensive dishes.
[removed]
Have any of you actually called them out on this directly, in person, to their faces?
Why is Dan simping for Greg and Susan so hard?
They admitted in their response to you that they got stuck with "more than they accounted for" which was **still** less than the cost of what they had ordered. They planned to be subsidized.

Send a screen shot of that to Dan. If he still can't grasp that they are leeches, avoid any further restaurant gatherings that include any of those three people.
“If you want to keep being their sucker, it’s your money. But I’m done.”
Given two others immediately followed suit, I'd say you aren't the only one feeling this way.
Well, apparently you are not alone with your disdain for the moochers as the other two cancelled their orders as well upon your lead.

Hopefully, Dan now gets your point.

And stick with the not going out with Susan and Greg going forward.

I don't think that you were immature at all.
May I suggest that you have a clear discussion with the two freeloaders. People can get away with things and they think its okay . . . obviously to them their friends WANT to support their lavish eating styles because nobody has said a word to them.  If you don't want to pay for their expensive meals you need to speak up and tell them flat outright that you will not be paying for their meals again. Don't give them any reason but basically they have no rights to YOUR money .. .  "You pay your way and I'll pay mine."
>Dan saying that I could have just not came instead of pulling that stunt and getting him stuck with an outrageous bill.

I don't understand how you not attending would have solved things? G&S were the ones that ordered the big items... And they still would have done this if you weren't in attendance. It sounds like 2 of your other friends smartened up as well and that's not your fault. If anything they're probably thankful for not getting stuck with another outrageous bill. This is entirely G&S's fault and Dan's inability to speak up.
Then it's time to stop hanging with Dan, too. He's expecting OTHERS to cover HIS charity.
I don't know Dan, but right now he sounds like the type to probably hold better people to higher standards because he's so nonconfrontational that he feels like it's your job to play nice with everyone if you demonstrate the ability to do so. Those kinds of people tend to let shitty people be shitty while expecting "good people" to have the same boundaries as them, which are clearly low to nonexistent. They also tend to excuse shitty people's shittiness with whatever circumstantial excuses they have been told by said shitty people, then they think they're being empathetic by being a door mat, and they don't realize that expecting the same of you is lacking empathy for how YOU are now being affected unfairly. NTA, clearly. You aren't an asshole for having reasonable boundaries.
“A fool and his money are soon parted”, Dan.
>Yeah they do this all the time, I guess I was feeling a little cheeky that night.

I know it's late and there's already a bajillion comments here but I wanted to say you were downright polite about that situation. Your friends are selfish dumbasses who are taking advantage of other's good will. Personally I'd tell them how it is, they're leeches who should live within their means and not pass their problems off to other people. But that's me.

I bet the face they make after you tell them that would be fantastic though. And tbh they need to hear it, you'd be doing them a favor. Because from what it sounds like they'll both be broke and friendless soon, causing problems for other people. The world has no place for this.
Well then, maybe Dan's gonna need a few more rounds on the leech carousel before his outlook adjusts.
Dan is a dumba** and he won’t learn until this happens more times eventually. Just steer clear of them. NTA OP
Is he mad at the other 2 friends too? They didn't order food and didn't pay anything either.
Someone needed to make a stand, even if it was just a cheeky one. Next time, if there is a next time with all of you guys! I say hit the nail on the head, and just propose a new rule, "Maybe this dinner we could all just pay for what we order ourselves?"....See how your stingy friends go then!
Dan clearly wanted you there to split the bill even after you told him you didn't want to go to dinner with leeches. He was probably in on it with Susan and Greg. He's pissed because you always paid in the past. Now he has to go to the trouble of finding 3 new victims to replace you and the other 2 people who ordered drinks.
Dan does not think you’re wrong. You’re just easier to deal with, so he NEEDS you to be wrong because he can’t handle the conversation or discomfort with them.
I hope that Dan, Susan, and Greg will be very happy together lol...NTA.
Because many people WILL pay to avoid a 'scene' of any kind. I do not pander to people. I will make a 'scene' if people are AH
It’s easier to argue with the sane, reasonable person whom you can trust. As opposed to the rude, entitled friends.
Yeah I don't really understand how anyone would just quietly take that kind of BS from Greg and Susan. People who use you aren't your friends. Dan is a grownup and can use his words and tell Greg and Susan he is not paying $146.
Right?? Use your words as we say to the little kids. Who puts up with this more than once or twice? (Or at all? Don't hang out with @$$holes.
This also confuses the crap out of me.  I would have politely refused the first time it happened, unless someone asked me beforehand.  Using your (hopefully appropriate) words to not be taken advantage of doesn’t make you an asshole.  If your friends say it does, you need better friends.
A lot of people fear conflict so much that they'd rather pretend like everything's fine.
A couple days ago I went to dinner with a big group I didn’t really know, so I brought cash to cover myself. As it turns out they were all reasonable humans, but I’m not rolling that dice and getting stuck with a massive bill.
Well put! I hope  OP takes note & passes it on if  any of those friends/anyone they know  go out to eat with G&S again...
Right?

No one who's struggling that bad should be ordering a $200 *anything, ever*. Even if the cost is split over smaller meals... the amount they would pay would still be way higher than if they ordered a $40 meal each
Yep - they're probably fine to just split the bill with, too.
They were waiting for someone to step up first and OP just happened to be that person.
I've never heard this term before and I think it's hilarious
Vegetable salad sounds a bit too rich for my blood.

I'll take the water salad
Vegetable salad 😂
I'll have the side salad.

Waiter: what would that be on the side of?

Why don't you put it here next to my water? 
😂😂😂
Oh the ketchup sandwiches lol

*stares at my full pantry *
If only I could tell 22 year old me wait till your 30s. You’ll never have a grumbling hungry stomach keeping you up all night again
"... just usually common courtesy to just order within what everyone else is ordering"

These 2 people are repeatedly *openly leeching* off the rest of you.

The solution here seems to be to stop inviting them out. Or being friends with them. They've left " common courtesy" so far behind it's a forgotten concept & elevated taking the p**s to an entirely new level.
But if the rest of you had decided to order expensive meals, following Greg and Susan’s lead, G&S would also have a problem with that since they didn’t expect to pay anywhere near the full cost of their meals. They’re not just eating big, they’re counting on getting subsidized by everyone else. No wonder you don’t want to eat with them.

I bet G&S were so happy at you only ordering cheap drinks… until you refused to pay into the food bill.
I’m in Aus and go out with friends regularly. We all pay for what we ordered. You just walk up to pay and tell them which items you’re paying for. Like maybe 5% of the time the restaurant doesn’t allow this and one person will pay and we all transfer them our share. Splitting the bill equally is just dumb. It’s not hard to ask for a receipt and do the math.
Nah, fuck that noise.

As a fellow Australian, stop splitting the bill, and make it very clear to all attending that you are happy to meet with them but you will only be paying your own meal. When you request the bill you can work out what you owe and all transfer to one person (whomever spent the most) or pay for only what you ordered. That is perfectly normal and acceptable social behaviour.

And start organising social get together without inviting the moochers. Friends don’t treat friends as expense accounts.
>  It's not very common in Australia, 


Huh? It's extremely common in Australia for a group to go to the counter and tick off their part of the bill...
As a celiac, I always say “mine is separate” at the beginning because A. I can’t partake in any food for the table and if I could it would be contaminated and B. Mine is going to have at least one up charge for gf something.
It is common enough in Australia to be able to pay for your items of the bill only.
 I have done that countless times at restaurants all over the country. 
Sure not all restaurants will, but lots do these days.

And if not, one person pay and shares the receipt and others pay them based on what they ate..

Also NRA, fk those leaches. They know what they are doing.
also in Australia, just wanted to share something that may be helpful! usually what our group does is have one person pay, and everyone transfers the cost of their own food+drink to the person who's paying. saves any issues with the bill being uneven when splitting, especially since there's a big variation in how expensive the orders in our group are
It might be uncommon in your group of friends, but it is absolutely normal here in Australia to pay your own way at a restaurant - these people are just scabs, and frankly they aren't your friends.
Separate checks used to be an annoyance in US also but i find It is much more common now. 

I like to get separate check myself because i dont order appetizers or usually dessert.  You have to ask up front tho, waitstaff don’t like it if you wait until the final bill is tallied.
NTA.  You did nothing wrong.  Dan allowed these two to leech off of him, that's his problem.  You and the other two that did the same thing as you weren't going to be taken advantage of.  Why should you subsidize them being cheap leeches?
Bullshit. I'm Australian. I'm almost 40. None of my friend groups have *ever* split bills. We pay for our own meals. If someone has to pay for the whole thing, we all send them the cash. PayID exists. Not once in my nearly 20 years of adulthood have we split the bills. Not in Darwin and not in Melbourne,
I'm Aussie too and me and my mates always just split the bill evenly at the end too and yeah just kind of order within each other. The Gregs and Susans can get fucked.

NTA
Before I saw your comment, I was about to say here in Aus, so many of our restautants you order and pay at the register or via the app. It's been years since I've seen a bill to pay after a meal here; even at the nicer places. If they're just casual get togethers, maybe try suggesting going to a different place. They're a dime a dozen here. That way everone pays for what the order 🙂

Of course, if you start getting entrees to share, you may need to make a rule that you alternate who gets them so there's no tomfoolery 🤣

If you stick with the current system, just mention in a nice way that you can no longer afford to keep overpaying at these get togethers so from here out, you'll give cash or transfer funds then and there for the food and drinks you ordered, to whoever is going to pay. If they're truly your friends, this won't be an issue, as long as you don't bring it up aggressively or with accusation. Maybe just say you've noticed that the bills are getting a little out of hand and you're concerned about the money you're spending.
Why would a restaurant refuse to split the checks? Most POS systems have that function built in. It barely adds any work, and they still have to run everyone's cards.
Common courtesy is not forcing the rest of your friends to pay for your bill. Request separate checks in the future. Or everyone pays for what they ordered (adding a tip).
Am Australian too. Eaten at many restaurants in many different towns over several states and only come across a couple of restaurants that don't split bill, in these cases everyone just transfers the exact amount of the cost of what they ordered to the person who initially pays the bill. Also can't think of a single time where things have been Split evenly. Like if someones meal was $24, and another was $26 etc, they pay those amounts only. People just pay for what they ordered, never had an issue. 
Only time someone would pay more than their share would be if it was previously discussed, as a gift for the birthday person or a family member etc

Do not understand when I see post on the internet of people thinking they or someone else is the asshole for not paying for someone else. Because I have never come across this situation in real life.

No one should be expected to pay for more than what they order. 
Especially not $100 more. Your mate should have refused to cop that aswell.
I don’t know which state you’re in, but in Vic & Tas it’s very common & easy to get places to split the bill for each person/couple in my experience. Also, I’ve been to places where each person works out what they owe & pays that at the end.
Maybe it’s tacky for rich circles haha. But us commoners, it’s the norm (thankfully)!
I find that strange. In Canada the point-of-sale software for restaurants has been set up to handle split bills for years. It’s basically default; the server keeps track of who-has-what as it’s ordered and it’s entered accordingly. People also have to get the right food served to them so it shouldn’t be a big deal for the payment to follow suit, if the software enables it. It’s so common here that it’s bizarre to me that other similar countries don’t do this.
No, separate cheques is a reasonable request, especially with everywhere have computer systems for their front of house.
This is very much true. I suppose in America waiters don't mind because of tips, since instead of the maybe 1 large order, they would be getting 5 smaller ones and therefore 5 tips which is more money for them. But here it is just too complicated and not worth the hassle and the most that the majority of restaurants will do is just divide the bill on separate cards if at all.
With modern eftpos systems, splitting a bill is not hard
You just write the last four numbers on the card and their portion on the back of the check, that way it’s easier for everyone.
Every restaurant should be open to allowing people to pay for what they consumed. It’s ridiculous to say otherwise. We will go out with teams and they can split the bills when the kids are at another table. 🤷🏻‍♀️
>  At the end of the day it is not the restaurant's responsibility

It is absolutely the restaurants responsibility to give you a bill for what you owe them.
Tbh if more people would’ve ordered more food and split it his cut would’ve been around the same anyways so idk why Daniel with the vans is complaining
I think this is spot on, and it means he's not rocking the boat.

Two of the crew caught onto why OP was only drinking and not eating, so it appears they're sick of it and made a stand too. Looks like Dan is the remaining snowflake who needs to stop being a people-pleaser and toughen up a little.
I feel like AITA  would barely exist if people did this. So ssssh. I need my daily drama fix.
Definitely this - he pushed you to come along.  I hope you tell Dan that he should "just put my opinions aside" and pay up.
Dan is seemingly ok subsidizing Greg and Susan’s extravagant ordering and buys into their financial woes. He is mad because he couldn’t enlist other friends to share the load to make himself feel better.
Where did you find a $4 beer?
I totally agree - NTA for what you did with ordering food. I love it! But with all the delicious Aussie drinks available... Kinda leaning A H for that drinks order haha
For what it's worth random fun info, here in ohio (I think maybe 400 miles from the Miller company?) I regularly see miller's go for 7-9 bucks for a pint at fairs and such. (Only like a 2.50-3 buck beer at a sports bar but event drinks are outrageous)
When I had a $50 per diem, I used that $50 per diem.

One employee did get in trouble for using it to buy groceries to take home though.
Fuck yeah! It's a part of my total compensation package.
Oh totally! The co-worker is spot on when it comes to getting the most from the employer. But it's a crappy way to treat friends.

NTA, OP.
well a restaurant check is always "check", however it's the "bill" anyway outside the US.
Thank you!!! Happy hours you might sometimes be able to get a $5 pot at a surf club or something, but it’ll be carlton or similar. Not millers lite 😂
OP might not be from Australia originally but yeah $4 AUD beer? Not a chance in hell you get a beer cheaper than a cup of coffee.
"Margaret" in Sydney Aus has  $220 300g David Blackmore Wagyu Sirloin with Chimichurri for example.

https://www.datocms-assets.com/127859/1716860864-26-05-24-a-la-carte-menu-dinner.pdf
I don’t understand why people invent stories on Reddit. for upvotes? What a waste of time. Is it a thrill to “trick” people into believing your random story? Lolllll ppl are so strange
“These are my 20-something year old friends, Roger and Deirdre.”
No restaurant in Australia that has expensive mains would have beers that cheap. They’d be $11 or something. Also, never seen Miller Lite anywhere. Ever.
There's a main on the menu for $200 but you can buy an imported beer that I've never seen in any bar, pub, or restaurant in Australia for $4? I'm trying to think of a time I've seen a beer at a public venue for $4 and like, maybe 20 years ago that happened, but I sure as shit haven't seen it recently.
[deleted]
The closest I could think of is if they lived on campus, some uni's campus accommodation is called "(Name) College"
Leaving $10 for a $4 beer is also very not Australian lol
Plus he claimed it was the cheapest beer on the menu lol. 

I’d put money on the cheapest beer being great northern lol
It’s amazing that Dan is able to stand up to OP but not to Greg or Susan. Something else might be going on there.
Exactly. Dan could have spoken up and said he wanted to pay his own bill and let Greg and Susan figure out theirs but he actively chose not to. For what reason, I will never know.
Brilliant!!!!!  Susan and Greg... you guys order 1st. I can't make up my mind, so I'm getting the same thing you do.
I really think they need to stop going to dinner. They can get together for other things, but why on earth would you keep playing this game
HA! YES!
You'd think that but arrogant people like this don't think that way. I guarantee they will play victim and complain at everyone for spending more than they did and that they should only have to pay their share of what they ate (which they will underestimate).
Exactly my thoughts. OP did the smartest thing possible this time.
Exactly. Why all the passive-aggressive shenanigans? These people know what they are doing, and they aren’t going to stop until everyone calls them on their BS and makes it crystal clear that it won’t fly.
>You did not get Dan stuck with the bill, Greg and Susan did.

He got himself stuck with it.  He could have cancelled his orders with the other two.
They are in a threesome.
I would just say it at the start: “ since some of us tend to order more than others, we’ll be splitting the check based on what you order and not evenly, going forward.”
with the update being that this was in AUD - presuming these are Australians, this is a total downside to our culture. We dont speak to what puts us out to others in person, ever, usually just let it fester until blow ups like this happen.
Psst. You can say asshole on the internet.
With a side of ice cubes
With lemon please.
The other two that canceled their food orders 100% knew what he was doing and decided to follow suit. Strange that the leeches keep getting invited out at all.
Or order something that costs even more than what they ordered, if you can afford it, just to make a point. Hell, order two entrees and take one home.
This right here. I understand wanting to be courteous to the wait staff, but you are beyond that at this point. You have two people who are taking advantage. They’re expecting to chip in $50 for a meal that’s $200. That’s not fair. 

OP — Next time the group goes out take the lead. Ask your server, when they first come over, for a separate bill for yourself you don’t have to speak for the table. If anyone gives you any push back, tell them you’re on a tight budget right now and want to stick to it by keeping your bill separate. Clearly, some of your other friends in the group feel similar, and it’s their prerogative if they want to follow suit.
They aren’t friends, as you said they are leeches.  Fool me once shame on you, fool me twice shame on me.
This is the only correct answer.
[deleted]
Yeah, that's what I do in Aus too.
Usually that’s how we do it too, however fewer places will split the bill now (in Sydney). For my birthday last year I paid, and everyone transferred me money / gave me cash to cover their share of the bill. Still felt insane paying over $800 for lunch though 😂

However, if it’s a small group or just two people, and we’ve all spent about the same amount, we’ll just split the bill equally.
Also I have never seen anywhere in Australia serve miller lite
Yes Aussie too and this is how it's done. A close group of mates may split if there's a ton of dishes eaten and you've all shared but otherwise you just pay what you've ordered for. Can still bite you in the arse if you're the last to pay and a few ppl have forgotten some sides or beers they ordered.

Also the miller lite part of the story makes me wonder if OP is in Aus - I can't really remember ever seeing that on a menu.
I'm in NZ, and my friends and I do the same, just pay for what we order.  The only time we've split the bill is when we went to a restaurant where we ordered share platters for the table.
Came to the comments to say, also as an Aussie, exactly the same thing. I have no idea where OP goes that regularly doesn’t allow paying for your own meals. Especially with the popularity of Square and other Point of Sale systems these days, it’s incredibly easy for the business to manage. 

The only “sharing” of bills my friend group does is rounds of drinks and that just means one of us buys beers for everyone and we take it in turns. My partner and I have even stopped doing this with a couple we often hang out with because they would ALWAYS order top shelf while we had beers, and then NEVER get their own rounds and would leave. My partner and I didn’t tolerate that for very long so we order our own drinks now and make it clear that we’re paying for ourselves. They still hang out with us, and pay for their own drinks. 
Yeah I thought that's how we all did it here, and splitting evenly was a dumb American thing like tipping. It's much easier to add a drink + main together than divide the whole thing by x amount. I can do it in my head.
This is 100% the way to go about things. Cut out the source of the drama. I think the way OP handled this was kind of perfection. It was a way to let the freeloaders know that their behavior will not be tolerated anymore. Dan the enabler is put in place too. If he wants to "help" the leeches, he is welcome to but only from his own wallet, not others. OP sent the message loud and clear without ever having to say the exact words in a long drawn out confrontation. Susan and Greg's complaints of "How could you let me pay my own bill?!" Just HAS to sound nuts even to their own ears. 
I’m also wondering where in Australia you can buy a $4 miller lite? American beers are usually more expensive than local and $4 is widely cheap for any beer. Plus, it’s cheque not check.
NTA, but OP could have said at the start “we’re all paying for what we order right? Not splitting!”

I was just there visiting friends and family. We ate out A LOT, had no issue splitting bills. Some places even had an app where you check off your order and only pay that amount. It tells you when others have paid their share. Super convenient. The problem is the moochers/friends.
Not really at a restaurant that serves $200 mains. They also don't have a counter they come to you.
I'm in Australia (Sydney) and quite a lot of restaurants have a "sorry, we don't split the bill" policy. But it's easy enough to PayID or Split wise your share, or just direct bank transfer.  I hate splitting equally my budget is tight and I will usually order something small or inexpensive that I know I can afford.
Also now days I’ve noticed, at least in Melbourne, more and more (since covid) that restaurants/cafes are putting in the pay/order at the table QR codes thingys.

So no menus on the table, and they can have less servers I guess :-( 

Maybe insisting on going to a restaurant with that system.
I find cafes allow that more than restaurants. But really it depends what software they have in their register. Some systems allow bill splitting, some don’t. They guys are leeches tho, well played OP.
in a group of non-leeching friends, that would probably work. with this group of friends, whoever paid would most definitely never see their money back from Greg and Susan.
Yeah. I was looking for this. Next time just say the problem out loud, because it seems everyone is tired of dealing with this. 

Before ordering say:
“I’m tired of paying so much more money than for what I ordered because some are rudely ordering food priced significantly above what the rest of us are. Just so everyone is aware, I will be using the calculator to figure out exactly what my portion of the bill is including tax and will only be paying that. I will no longer stand for covering inconsiderate leeches.”
Yup.. in something with shared dishes like yum cha you evenly split the bill but if everyone orders their own then you're expected to pay your own. If the restaurant doesn't do split bills one person will pay via credit card (and no one says anything about the free points if they get them) and the rest pay back via bank transfer or cash.
Unfortunately in the US banks don't do bank transfers the way they do in UK and possibly Australia. That's why businesses and apps like Venmo have done so well, as they are meeting that need. 

So all the Americans are suggesting splitting checks because it is super common, and usually you just make sure to ask when ordering or before they finish up the check.
This is an option but definitely a pain in the butt vs just settling up the bill at the end of the dinner. On group trips, my friends and I use an app called SettleUp. The one person adds in the amount they paid for a dinner, excursion, etc. and the group participants and the app divides the cost by who owes who what.
But Mooches, are going to pull that financial difficulties to you...lol... have THEM pay and everyone else send THEM their "share" aka their personal bills :)
This is how I do it with my friends in the US also. One person pays and everyone Venmo’s them for what they ordered. 

If it’s just me and another friend getting lunch we might split the bill but that’s within a dollar or two.
Your food and bev industry really are lazy assholes, POS systems can do this already.
>Separate checks used to be an annoyance in US also

This primarily has to do with the point of sale systems.

I started working in restaurants 25 years ago, and some places still had systems that were VERY difficult to keep track of split checks, it was almost easier to split at the end, but it would take a long time to do it...  and when you have other tables to get to, those other tables would think you were neglecting them.

Within 5 years of me starting, almost every restaurant had a system where splitting checks was an intentionally built in feature, which made it easy to keep track of between food, drinks, who was sitting where, etc.  But some of them still took a few full minutes to get arranged.  Easy, but time consuming.  And that's when it was really helpful to know right at the start.

I haven't worked in a restaurant in about 12 years, but by the time I left, it was simple, and relatively quick to do it.

As a server, I always preferred to create separate checks, and with larger tables would even ask/offer right from the start.  When you hand a table of 8-10 people one check, either everyone tries to figure everything out themselves, which makes it easy for add-ons or extra drinks to get ignored...  or one person coordinates everything and you risk that person being a miser that barely tips (risking you get a tiny tip for the entire bill).

Splitting the check myself means no items get missed, and even if one person at the table never tips, all the other folks will, so I'll still make decent money.

Even when it took a good 4 minutes of my time in the middle of a rush, to split checks, I always did it...  much less risk.  I never understood servers who complained about it, because it was their income to lose by not doing it.
Next thing you will be saying you don't buy $4 miller light beer, or call university 'college' like the OP. /s

But yes, I don't think this person is Australian, living in Australia, or has visited Australia. If they did they would make their story more realistic by increasing the price of the beer at least.
We poor Australians don't have the Internet so no one will be able to correct his story.
Also, Miller Lite, check rather than cheque? OP is likely not Australian.
> I suppose in America waiters don't mind because of tips,

They don't mind in Europe either. You don't even have to tell them beforehand.
That's crazy. You are basically forced to pay for food that isn't yours or restrict what you are eating based off what others decide to eat. I'd never go out to eat if restaurants were like that here. People should be able to order what they want and only pay for what they purchased.
The only real answer here is to stop hanging out with Greg and Susan.
Tips are (typically) percentage based so a server doesn't usually get more money just from splitting an order across multiple checks. 
This doesn’t make any sense to me. As a Canadian, I have never gone out with friends and NOT had separate bills. It’s so easy and simple for the waiters to separate the bills, especially if you tell them before you order, but even if you tell them after it’s pretty simple. At red lobster they have a POS literally on the table and you can split up the meals yourself without even needing a waiter. I have always thought splitting the bill evenly was a stupid American thing, never heard of anything so dumb in my life. Has no one seen that episode of friends? It’s never fair to split a bill like this.
Not in Sydney, only a couple of times have we not been able to walk up to the cashier and pay out own items off the bill. One bill, multiple payments. 

About 15 years ago I used to meet a group once a month for a slow restaurant crawl of King Street and my friend who organised it had everyone pass along the $ to cover their order so she paid at the end. I stopped going cos every month for the six I went to, some cheap bastard didn't front their money. With a group of 10-15 it was too hard to work out who it was. I got sick of chucking extra in to cover for anonymous leech. I had my suspicions but no proof
In the U.S., we have computer systems that make it super simple to split the bill. Maybe they don’t use the same systems in Australia? 
What is so complicated about that?

Whenever we go to a restaurant with a group of friends at the end each of us goes to the waiter's screen where he has info of every item we consumed, and each of us says what they had and pays for that (and leaves a tip). It only takes a moment, and is not hard at all (and the waitstaff has 12 tips instead of one).

The waiters/restaurants who say this is too complicated are just being lazy.
Our PoS systems must work differently. The ones I’ve used, each meal or drink is assigned to a seat. When you print the receipt, you can either print it as a single for the whole table, or print by seat, so splitting by what each person ordered is very easy.
Former US server...seperate checks is really no big deal.. the POS system makes it very easy.  Every system I've used has a way that is really no big deal for the restaurant or the server.
Just an explanation on tipping culture in the US- tipping is often based on a percentage of the bill (somewhere around 20%). So the waiter would likely be getting the same tip amount regardless of if it is one check or five checks since it’s the same total dollar amount. Unless you have members of the group that tend to tip more or less than that 20%
I'm sorry, but that is absolutely ridiculous. They created computer software that makes separating checks incredibly easy DECADES AGO. If a restaurant can split the bill, they can also easily do separate checks. As long as a server knows up front that the checks will be separate, it takes absolutely zero extra effort. There's nothing complicated about it, and I have a hard time believing that even most restaurants in an entire continent have decided laziness is more important than having the most basic of restaurant technology.
Would have been about 30% less for Dan to pay if the three who didn't order ordered something around 40 bucks and they split the bill 6 ways. Dan paid 146 bucks, would have paid 100 if it went his way. 

Not to say the complaint is justified. But there is a money difference.
No.  Assuming those two orders a meal for $200 and everybody else orders meals for $40.  Then the cost comes out to 40 + (320 / number of people paying).  So going from 3 to 6 means the extra he would pay is cut in half from ~107 to ~53.  That's before taxes and possible gratuity.  He would have saved more than the cost of his own meal.
Dan’s just mad bcuz OP taking a stand against the leeches gave the other friends, who are clearly over it also, the courage to also take a stand. Bet Dan won’t be so quick to invite the leeches anymore.
I am calling bullshit on this story $40 mains are pretty expensive in Aus, and $200 meals (which apparently each of them ordered) is unheard of, especially at a place that then sells $4 imported beer - just does not add up. 

He has either well embellished the story or just made it up.
My old bosses at IBM used to check out of the hotels that were being expensed and stay with friends on work trips and pocket the money.  Only one "business meeting" that was expensed was ever brought up, as the tab was $2000 and there were no customers present.  Nothing mattered as long as sales quotas were exceeded.
Yeah, I was going to say, I have never heard anyone say check in Australia. It's always bill.
The cost of the food isn’t the issue, it’s that there’s an almost zero chance you can get a beer here in Australia for $4.
I’ve dined there - they don’t have any $4 beers, let alone Miller Lite - and they’re a pretty up market restaurant so you’re not going to sit there with just a $4 beer while other people dine.
Precisely. I love going to a fine dining experience with my friends and then getting a $4 beer.
Theory 1) Dan is their Sub.

Theory 2) they helped him bury the body in the woods that one time and they won't let him forget it
It was an awkward threesome when they got home that night
Dan is just a door mat. Financial hardship my ass. No one struggling will order a 200 steak every time they go out. At this point he is just plain stupid for going along. Let him sink himself alone.
Dan is a people pleaser, they can be absolutely shitty at times.
Plus a side of truffles and caviar.

If the place does a $200 steak (even in Aus$) then I'm sure they'll do some very extortionate dishes too.
Especially if you can plot it out with your 2 other friends that tonight you are going to go nuts and let them order first and each of you make an effort to out order them. So when the bill comes in they will actually be paying more than the amount that they ordered for once.
They did get a lesson they won't soon forget. I approve of them scrambling to come up with the money on their own.
> **These people know what they are doing, and they aren’t going to stop until everyone calls them on their BS and makes it crystal clear that it won’t fly.**

This does not always work.  I have a few moochers in my family who, even though you call them out, they still try to do it and even come up with creative ways to try to mooch off of others.
Always worked for me to bring that up. For a while I never ordered alcohol with my meal and I would prefer a burger over steak 100% of the time, so I wasn't going to pay $50 for my burger with water
"Use your words, as we say to the little kids."
Ice cube croutons
"Strange that the leeches keep getting invited out at all."

It makes you wonder who is inviting the leeches. If they aren't being asked who's telling them where they're eating?  Someone wants them there, and I'd bet right now from this story it's probably Dan.
That’s the part that baffles me. They are certainly not friends, at least as I understand what a friend is.
I knew a guy that did this; he ordered soup because he had jaw issues, but all his friends ordered steaks and whiskey -- and then wanted to split the bill evenly. So he grabbed the waiter and ordered a steak, a couple apps, and a dessert to go, just add it to the bill.

All of a sudden, the split it evenly bros didn't look so happy.
I've seen a few Reddit posts where a fed up friend did something like that, and the Dans in those stories turned on them, and not the actual moochers. The best solution is to stop going out with moochers and their enablers.
I like this, OP. Save up if you have to. Call it the Susan and Greg Spite Fund.
This! Let them order first and everyone order the same cost or more. Do this every time they are invited along. This way they have to pay for what they ordered and everyone gets a fancy meal. Let everyone in your friend group know this except these two so they can all look up the most expensive foods on the restaurants menu online and be prepared for that cost. A few dinners where they really have to pay their share and I’m guessing their orders get more reasonable. And just keep following their lead even when they start ordering more reasonably. Going forward they always order first and everyone else can keep their costs around that level since these two can’t be trusted to order fairly.
This will only lead to a Cold War-style arms race, if entrees were nuclear weapons. No good can come of this.
It would be even better if the other two friends that took his lead on the drinks ordered a bunch of pricy food as well. It would be funny if the three of you fed on each other ordering more and more.
The sad thing is, according to the OP, Susan and Greg would just give a sob story about how they "just can't pay this time, sorry fellas but we're all friends right, you'll get ours". They'd probably order more too.
He should wait until Dan has ordered, and Susan and Greg have made their expensive order, then say something like, "That sounds delicious, I think I'll follow your lead, it's a special occasion after all!" And then proceed to top their order.  Bonus points if he gets his other two friends to do the same, so that Susan and Greg end up paying closer to what they ordered, and oh-so-generous Dan can contribute to everyone having a grand meal for cheaper than they have any right to expect.
That’s fighting fire with gasoline. I dig it. 

Everyone orders $200 meals—> “Wait, what???? We’ll have to pay $200 for this $200 meal?”
I know somebody quite wealthy who has a couple who was leeches like that. Once He was invited to a very expensive restaurant with a great wine list, Knowing that he would be ask to pay. He made sure that everybody knew that he could not drink because he was driving and that he had to leave early. He had no intention of paying but he left them choose the most expensive wines and order 2 bottles. After the meal, he went to the toilet, settle his bill and left as announced.

The couple was left with a bill of £900 just for the alcohol. They tried to make the other people who was with them to pay for alcohol but they refused. One couple refused because they were muslim and therefore don't drink alcohol. The other person was a woman who did not drink because she was pregnant. 

The day after, they called him to pay part of the alcohol bill, he made sure to remind them that he had not drunk any alcohol because he was driving.

It took them a few months to clear the bill on their credit card.
I actually have a relative who orders two entrees and takes one home whenever we invite him to go out to dinner, which is, need I say, rarely!
This is what I do.  I have friends like this, and since it's within my means, I go all out when we dine together, so the bills are pretty much even.  I find it's the only way to enjoy a meal with them.  To their credit, they've never complained or tried to push back.

What pushes this over the line for me is the $200 meal and then complaining about splitting it 3 ways after.  OP pulled a bit of a stunt on Dan, but he's still NTA due to just how bad Susan and Greg's behaviour was.
YES!
Or bring cash for your own, tell the server to subtract your cash from the total and then split the rest. I have a feeling the other two friends who also didn't get food would like to know you're bringing cash so they don't get screwed again. 

Also, where can I get a friend like Dan? I need someone to pay for my meals! Haha
A lot of places in Australia will not spilt bills
You will be told 'we don't do split bills'. 
Or have two checks — one for the decent folk and one for Susan and Greg.
Fool me more than 3 times...good bye Dan. Have a nice mooch filled life.
Also the fact that they ordered $200 meals, ended up with a bill of $150 and still thought they were paying more than they budgeted for? Nahhhh
Same here in NZ - I'm trying to think of the last time we 'split the bill'. I think it was overseas...

We've done this with some quite large parties (yes, we did make sure we could ahead of time) - 20-40 people. They have no problem with it.
I think some of the University bars do. Quasi US appearances shit.
And it wouldn't be $4
Unless you’re at a venue like an RSL where you pay upfront, there are a number of places that don’t allow splitting of bills. It comes down to people not paying for a portion of, or operator errors in not ensuring the entire cost is paid. There used to be some hesitancy for car payments due to cost, but with so many venues passing this on, not so much. 

So whilst it does happen, it’s not unusual for a refusal to split the bill. Here in Melbourne at least.
I've never seen Miller Lite for sale here and I can't think of the last time I bought a $4 beer. That'd be more like $15 in a place that supposedly sells a $200 main
Who even drinks Miller in Australia?
Ah! You’ve found the hole in the story. Who even orders that here?
Good pt, it makes this whole post seem like bullshiat, there are no restaurants in Aus where you get any beer for $4.
I'm trying to think of where you could simultaneously order a $40 meal (maybe a parma and a couple of pints) as well as a $200 meal (7 course degustation?). What kind of place is this.
You don't even need software at the register - the order taker just indicates which seat ordered what.  Then you determine which seat numbers get which check.  For instance 2 couple and 2 single - seats 1-2 are 1 check.  Seat 3 is another.  Seat 4 is another and 5-6 is the last one.
I think a stiff conversation needs to be had with Susan and Greg. IF they want the privilege of going out, each of them is the first to pay individually for the group dinner. If not? They’re not invited. And I think it’s rubbish your friends are putting this on you. Dan has made it hard to speak up. Good Friends don’t use /abuse repeatedly. Lame.
What they could do is declare (= peer pressure) they will transfer their shares to Greg or Susan and G+S pay the entire tab since they always spend so nominate them as responsible for money management during dinners. This way no one else is even volunteering to front the cost. Better yet if they then take their phones and ask for bank information etc to increase the pressure. However, the bigger issue is that the group has no balls and will do passive aggressive stuff that impacts the third friend with even littler balls after the meal. 
Then Greg or Susan is the one to pay initially.
These are leeches, not friends.
Unless they have Susan & Greg pay and the other friends transfer to them
Yeah.. they would "forget" to pay back their friend.
Then the other friends cover their cost, and the leeches aren't invited out again
In the day and age of text messaging, just stick it in a group text. Talk about what’s been going on, why you did what you did and just put it all out there. Tell them you don’t feel like paying so that they can treat themselves on everybody else’s time. Tell everybody from now on, if we only can get one bill will get an itemized bill and everybody will pay for what they ordered. It’s no longer gonna be a free ride for those two to order an exorbitant amount of stuff and everybody has to pay for it.
I think the USA is the only country where tax is not included in the menu price. In other countries tips and service charge would be in addition but not tax.
It’s Australia, so no tax and no tip. No need for the calculator generally. 
As a server, please ask before ordering, makes it easier and less likely for mistakes to be made!
I'm a Brit living in Texas and this blew my mind when I moved over. Setting up a bank transfer is straightforward in the UK and a pain in the bum here.

Also cheque/check books are free back in the UK. Probably because no one ever uses them. Here I have had to relearn ye olde lost art of check writing.
US here, my bank app has Zelle built right in. I know it's not as popular as Venmo or Cashapp, but it's right from my banking app. 🤷‍♀️
Zelle is kind of our bank to bank option in the US. Otherwise, Paypal, Venmo, or Cash App are the most popular. In NYC (where I live) getting a check split is nearly impossible, they’ll split it evenly if you’re lucky but they won’t give separate checks for what you ordered.
Isn't that just a calculator with extra steps?
I notice these days when I go out with people the server often asks up front whether it will be one check. I think that’s a good system; back when I was serving, it was a horrible pain to divide it up after everyone had already ordered and eaten.
...you know, I totally missed the $4 beer. No one is paying $4 for a beer unless they're in Bali or something. *$4* beer in *this* economy? Ridiculous!
When it came to the part where OP mentioned AUD, I was so surprised because 'college' and 'check' are not terms Australians use in this context (and 'cheque' would be the correct Australian spelling). Why pretend to be Australian? What does it add to the story except confirmation that it's a creative writing exercise? 
Yea, stuff like in the story above definitely happens but this one in particular is a fake story. A $4 miller lite in Australia? Absolutely not! And there’s been very few restaurants I have gone to here where you can’t split the bill. And if you can’t split, then one person pays and everyone sends them money or gives them cash. The only time we ever ‘go half’s’ is if we all get something at a pretty similar price, such as we go out with another couple and I get a parmy and soft drink, the other wife gets similar and both husbands get a steak and beer. We’ll just split the cost.
Maybe they ate at Outback :) :)
Yeah, get your story straight, OP. We're everywhere and we *know* when people are playing silly buggers with us.

Who the fuck drinks Millers Lite in *Australia*? Almost worse than saying you had a Fosters...
I just said this elsewhere but yes! Every time a meal is finished the waiter asks "together or separately?" and that's it. No problems :'D
Stop! You're making too much sense! lol
As a Canadian, I am flabbergasted at resturaunts saying it's too complicated to split the bill? I was a waitress for years and it doesn't take any time at all? If anything, adding everything up and splitting it would be more work. Maybe their POS system is wildly different but that seems like a super simple fix
The real answer.
This is true, however...

I used to wait tables. If the party was 6 or more, the gratuity would be included. Sometimes it would stay included if the check was split, sometimes not, depending on the manager.

If the gratuity wasn't included, with smaller checks, customers tend to round up either the tip amount or the total. (A lot of people like the total to end in 5 or 0 [25, 30, 35, 40] because it makes it easier to track their money, and the extra $1 or $2 makes them feel generous... and/or if they are paying with cash, they don't want to deal with change/small bills.) If you have a 6-top table, and they all have this mentality, that can be an extra $10 in tips, in addition to whatever the percentage was. And there's almost always at least one person who tips double, just in case one of their friends doesn't tip well enough.

I loved working large parties, because it was always a guaranteed automatic gratuity. And I had no problem splitting checks for those large parties, even though it took time, because I almost always made more tip money with split checks.

This was a long time ago, though. There is a huge anti-tipping movement/attitude right now, so I'm not sure if it still works like this.
Heck, back when I waitressed at a place that did it all manually, paper order slips and a basic af cash register, it wasn't hard to split the bill.
Most places can do it these days. OP is rather off in saying this is not common in Australia. Idk, maybe they are in a smaller town or something
Some do, some don’t but will do it manually. Some have ‘No split bills’ in large letters on the menu and register. As I tend to have non leach friends these days (weeded the riffraff out) in those cases one person will pay - usually someone with a ‘points’ program in their credit card - and everyone else transfers the money on the spot using PayId
Agreed - also calling the bill the check is not common in Aus
this is exactly what i was about to comment, where are you getting beers for 4 bucks here lmao
He's bullshitting:

>I(27M) have been apart of a small friend group, around 8 people total, **basically since college.**

We don't call it college, he should have said uni/university.


>but I just pick up the menu and point to the $4 Miller Lite and sent the waiter away.

wtf is a Miller Lite, and how are you getting a beer for $4 in Australia?

>90% of restaurants where I live they don't do separate checks and might separate the bill for you if you're lucky

I have rarely had an issue with split bills in Australia. It's the exact opposite of what this guy is saying.

Also, exactly what you said. The variance in price range is too insane, it makes no sense. Moderately expensively priced mains at $40 each and then also some at $200.. with $4 imported beers? And what group of adults is so socially inept that they enable this kind of behaviour, lmao?
Plus who calls it college in Australia? Nobody. I have never once seen Miller Lite for sale in Australia and there isn't a hope in hell you are getting a $4 beer in a pub/restaurant. In a place selling $200 meals it would be at least $10 for a cheap beer.
I gotta agree.
As a Queenslander (Aus) I have never seen the bill split but only as an itemised, maybe that's a regional thing. If the bar is seperate then it would be paid as you go, or it's added to the bill with dinner. Where are you getting a $4 beer? And if you spent $4 why did you put $10 in cash on the table? You have to pay the bar. 
It doesn't make sense at all
Yeah I call bullshit too. Alcohol tax in Australia is very high. You can’t get anything alcoholic for under $12. $4 is a glass of Coca Cola.
Agreed - this is weird.
[Ruth's Chris](https://ruthschris.net/our-menus/) in America is extremely easy to have a $200 per person bill and you can get beers for $4-5.  If this place is charging $200 for a dinner entree then they could look at drinks as a loss leader.
Agree. $30-50 is the range for a main at a reasonable place in Sydney. No way there was a $200 option unless they were at quay or bennelong or aria , or somewhere with a set menu!
Exactly.  There's zero chance that a place carrying a 4 dollar Miller Lite has \*anything\* on the menu that costs 200 dollars.
Well the cost of the food is also the issue. No one splits the bill when one person orders something 6x the cost of everything else. And if they do, they will never see that person again.
3) Dan is spineless and he knows that OP is a reasonable person but the other two are going to fly off the handle when called out so he's choosing the path of least resistance.
Shouldn't even be going out to eat if they're actually having financial hardships.
THIS! I’m a single mom with two jobs. IF (and it’s a big if, because I rarely do) I go out to eat with friends, I get what I can afford, and nothing more. Even then, I would never expect my friends to pay for any of it!
Well, that’s a problem! Family is a little different, since they are harder to distance yourself from. But letting everyone know where you stand and being consistent is always the best you can do.
Dan's probably a people pleaser and hopefully he's learning why, despite their best efforts, most people don't like people pleasers, because they end up as flying moneys and the witch is a bad employer.
Brilliant.
That is fucking GENIOUS!!! so simple, so effective. I shall use that man’s wisdom in the future, should anything like this happen to me.
[Bania Soup meal](https://images.app.goo.gl/76VWqHS7Rzj49N226)
This exactly. I get the impression that the others who got up and cancelled their dinners, to switch to just having a social drink, feel the same way. They're the people to jam with. Leave Greg and Susan at home, and if Dan's going to switch up, when OP told him from the start he didn't want to come if they were there because of their behaviour, and he insisted OP go, leave Dan at home too.
This reminds me of something that happened in college. My friends group went out, and one person, Kay, invited along two of her high school friends. No big deal, we were all fine with that. 

Kay's friends ordered way more than any of us, as well as expensive drinks. Kay's friends mysteriously left shortly before the bill arrived. Kay couldn't get ahold of her friends, and she insisted we split the bill equally. Rather than being mad at her friends, who she invited and none of us knew, Kay was mad that we weren't willing to subsidize some strangers' choices even though most of us were not rolling in money and being able to go out was a real luxury. Our wealthiest friend, who tended to be generous, covered Kay's friends portion and refused to go out again with Kay.
I think Dan will think of this next time he goes out w them- either that or he’s incredibly stupid
Well, OP tried to decline but Dan urged him to “put his opinions aside” and come anyway. At no point did OP agree to order any specific menu items. Plus, two other members of the group followed OP’s lead in only ordering drinks. I wonder if they got messages from Greg and Dan the next day as well? Regardless, a very valid point was made and, hopefully, lessons learned for the future social situations.
And now you know that they are not really your friends.
I'd happily donate to the Susan and Greg Spite Fund :)
This couple doesn't deserve subtlety. Always make them order first, then everyone else should just order a drink and watch them eat. Why should everyone blow their budget for this?
That is actually a great way to do this! It’s subtle, yet quietly calls them out. Are you like, some kind of mediator in real life?
Darn, I thought I came up with this, but here it is, farther down in the comments.
Mutually assured digestion
“Desserts! We’ll have one of each please.”
Oh my gosh, that would have hopefully cured them! Haha. A huge pile  of food and a huge bill to be split “evenly”! Lol
> They'd probably order more too

Exactly this.
I wonder why no one is calling this couple out. "If you don't have the money, why did you order more than everybody else?! We can't afford your exorbitant spending either!"
Sorry, Mooches, I forgot my wallet, and I'm having a financial issue, your my friends (mooches) I'm SURE you understand!
This is also a good idea. If OP can look at the menu before they go, decide what they want, and bring cash for just that. If a stink is made again simply say that you’re on a budget and you wanted to stick to it so you brought cash.
Meals are only the beginning.
> However, the bigger issue is that the group has no balls and will do passive aggressive stuff that impacts the third friend with even littler balls after the meal
 
LOL so true.
 
But the same could be said for most people in this sub — a million suggestions on how to approach this situation and almost none of them involve *confronting the moochers*.
Or just stop fucking inviting them!
if they fall for their "sob stories" every time they go to pay so they can split the bill, there's no way they won't pull the same shit to get out of being the one to foot the bill initially. the real problem is that nobody is willing to call them out on their bs.
I try not to be pedantic, but since the meaning is so different, I think you mean “exorbitant.”
"exorbitant amount" is the correct expression although "absorbing" is what everybody else is doing if they have to pay for it.
It's not the only country.
Yup, the menu price is the price you pay. Some may have an EFTPOS surcharge which is 1-2% or a set amount but even that’s advertised. Large groups(10+ people) may incur a 10%-20% gratuities charge but again, that’s well documented. If wait staff want tips, they earn them by giving exceptional service above the standard level. There’s no reason why Greg and Susan can’t just pay for what they purchased. But everyone, especially Dan needs to grow up and stop letting his “friends” leech off everyone! It would only take a couple times forcing them to pay for what they get before they finally start ordering what they can afford!
Oh I know, I used to be a server/work food and desserts behind the counter. But not everyone does know and when I've been out with people who don't know, sometimes they don't even see a problem with asking for the check to be redone after it's been printed and brought over 🤦
Oh I remember my days of serving and how frustrating it would be when a seven-person table eats, drinks, makes merry, THEN informs you they want separate checks. Cue like half an hour at the computer trying to remember what each person ordered and separating it out.

I notice these days, when I go out with people, the server asks up front if it will be one check or several. I think that’s a good system.
Yeah, I've heard about that on Reddit and I still don't get it. Third world country here and if you wanna make a transfer, you ask for the route number (it's like an 11 digit number) and just do the transfer through your bank app. You usually just text the number because no one knows it by heart. That's it. 

There are other new apps now, that allows you to transfer money with just the phone number (9 digits and you totally know that one by heart), but those apps are really new, though everyone has started using it now.
However, there are definitely areas of the US that have $4 beers. Though, those aren't the places you could rack up $200 in a steak dinner.
Couldn't even pick an Aussie brand of beer. Even just called it a stubby and it wouldn't ring as many alarm bells. Fake af.
A place that'll serve $4 beers but your mates can order $200 each worth of food? No way.
But think about how difficult and frustrating it must be to use a feature on your POS terminal that the rest of the world uses so that your customers don't have to deal with the Susan and Gregs of the world?
In Canberra, they separate Year 11 & 12 into a different school and call it college.
It is probably bullshit but there are colleges in Australia
College as in residential college on a uni campus, I’d assume. But there are other oddities in OP’s story like the beer brand. (Also even non-alcoholic beer is like $10-12 usually!)
I dunno I’m in Sydney and depends on where you go how much drinks will set you back. But even happy hour won’t be as cheap as $4. But seriously we don’t call uni a college here. I call bs too
Alcohol just isn't that cheap in Australia. An $8 beer would be cheap
And those places don’t sell beers for $4 lol.
It's this one. I've known a lot of people like this. They hold the view that the person pointing out the problem has caused the conflict rather than the person causing the problem.
Winner. Winner. Chicken dinner.
Agreed. Easier to confront OP than the true assholes here - makes it easier for Dan to not have to examine his own behavior and how he's allowed himself to be used for so long (and that he may allow it some more, while OP has shown the strength to not take it any more).
4) this!  With the addition of  Dan is also using his other friends to help in his quest to “help out” Susan and Greg with their “financial hardship” because it lessens the monetary investment on his part when it’s split 6 ways. Dan is also a crappy friend and a user.  That’s why he’s ok calling out OP but not the two people costing him money. It’s bananas to get mad at the person with a $4 tab and not the two leeches with multiple hundreds of dollars. They all suck- minus the 3 friends that follow suit lol
Eh, sometimes - especially when in long-term financial hardship - it’s important *to* have a moment of normalcy out with friends rather than another night alone at home because you know you’re poor. Little moments grant spoons to make steps upward. 

THAT SAID - You plan for those moments, don’t assume others will cover you, and even if they’ve said they will, don’t assume they’ll cover expensive things.  Those are always awkward conversations, but don’t necessarily have to be long ones to square expectations and gratitude as gracefully as possible. You don’t assume a repeat. And when you can, you do the same for others. You don’t be Susan and Greg.
I’m also solo mum with small kids. My friends and I always pay our own way and we discuss where we’re going to eat prior to make sure it’s affordable and enjoyable.
I have another theory… Dan likes to feel magnanimous and like he’s wealthy… He knows they can’t afford this, but enables it, because the blow back is he gets to sit there all flush with how generous he’s being… 

But he’s doing that on the group’s purse. He’s spending other people’s money for his own gain.
Yup. A lot of people go through life as people pleaser's because they can't stand the idea of people being mad at them. 

If you identify as someone like this, my suggestion is to literally just always ask yourself how you feel about that person first. Are you happy with them? If not, then why are they not doing anything they can to fix your unhappiness with them? 

If you don't wanna have shitty friends, then you need to show that you won't take shit. Otherwise, you're going to attract people who want to give you shit. It's the same thing with love.
Flying moneys for sure -- Dan's! 😂
Sometimes you just need to sit people down and just tell them their behavior sucks and it needs to be corrected if you want to spend anymore time in the friend group. 

Can’t afford to eat out? Then don’t! Join your friends and have a soda only. 

Or better yet I’d kick them from the group because they are users.
>because they end up as flying moneys and the witch is a bad employer.

But the pay is easy to beat!  
(because they ^do ^^it ^^for ^^^free)
Did he CRUMBLE any crackers in it?!
I had this going to a meetup of an internet group: 2 ordered steaks and the rest ordered pasta. When the bill came they wanted to split but I put my foot down. I ordered pasta and a beer, I wasn’t paying for steak and wine. Next time the group was going out I suggested in advance that we agree to pay for whatever we ordered rather than splitting. “Oh,” says one of them “you’re [i]her[/i].” The meetup never happened.
Wow, they ditched you?  That happened once with me, it was an ex- friend's birthday, he invited loads of people, who then got up and tried to leave when the bill came.  There was an army guy at our table who individually tracked down every one of those moochers and got them to put money in.  I'm so grateful to him for that.
Not mutually exclusive!
Same!! Omg I want this to happen so bad. Lemme know how to send contribution 🤣🤣
For real drop a venmo and you'll get $5 from me lmao. All I want in return is an update
Agreed. I would have no problem calling out so-called friends who openly want to take advantage of others. Fuck these people! If they have “financial hardships” then wtf are they doing ordering expensive ass entrees?!!
What is so wrong with telling the truth? TELL the leeches no one is going to help pay for them to eat out. They can stay home and feed themselves. Not friends by any definition.
Mutually assured indigestion.
It would be worth going to gym for this level of petty goodness.
“I’ll take all the desserts you have.  Wait..I feel like you heard that and think I mean I’d like a lot of dessert. What I want is ALL the dessert you have.”
Exactly, I’d look at them as they order and be like “can you afford that? No? Then order something else, you leech. I’m not covering your ass.”
Also an Aussie, I have never experienced a group that just handed over money to leeches without a murmur. Maybe I'm old, but fair play is a strong Australian value  - much stronger than "niceness" :)
Sounds like OP isn’t the one inviting them.
Why are people downvoting you? You are right! Canada is another country in addition to the US. This is Reddits problem, downvoting when they don’t get the answer they wanted.
We can transfer instantly in the US with a phone number or email address too, but it has to be set up first. And the other person has to be using the same service. Even when it’s integrated into the banking app, you still have to set it up.
It could be college as in high school - in the ACT, they have colleges for year 11 & 12.

But yeah, it’s sus with that + the $4 Millers Lite + the $200 menu.
Shoot the Messenger is a cliche for a reason.
So you've met my family?
Wait Dan is my mother ?
> ~~Chicken~~ steak dinner.
Doesn't conflict with mine. He should be realising that people aren't sitting there impressed at how generous he is, they are resenting him.
Crackers in a bowl? That COULD be a meal.
"Oh," said one of them, "You're the one who doesn't want to let me take advantage of you.."
That's sad because you did nothing wrong.

It's their loss and thankfully, not yours
Used to happen to me a lot too. I don't eat meat and I don't drink alcohol, my bill tends to be significantly lower than a lot of people's just by the nature of what's available to me. You very quickly realise who's a mooch when their bill is double yours but they want to split everything 50/50. If it's a few pounds difference I'm not bothered, but I'm not adding a significant amount to what I'm paying because someone wanted surf and turf.
They sure did. Kay was the only one who knew them, so none of us had their phone numbers, email addresses, and so on.
I’m going to laugh my ass off if a Go Fund Me page called “Susan and Greg Spite Fund” shows up.
I’m in…
It's Australia, we don't have payment services like Venmo. All you have to do is plug your mate's phone number into your bank app and it sends them the money directly.

Most of the options available to us like PayPal end up giving away even more personally identifiable info.
We get venmo style instant payments direct from one person to another for free so venmo would not make any money here.  Ours is called Osko
literally!! like go home? save some money idk
“No, I didn’t mean one of each dessert to split between us. I mean each of us wants one of each dessert.”
Or not even going at all!
They don't charge you for eating them, they charge you for ordering them.
Thanks for the information. It is always good to learn.
But then that's not the same thing that's just like an internal transfer. Bank transfers are like between institutions and also it should be instant. No set up required cuz you're depositing to the acc and not paying a bill or whatever like in PayPal/Venmo. You just use the routing number and the persons acc and it's like a direct deposit to their acc as if you were physically in the bank doing it. There's also Einterac where you just text someone money and it deposits instantly to their account.
Can also mean student housing attached to a uni. Eg St Paul’s college at Sydney uni.
Oh I agree! What is his motivation?! … grandiose self appreciation can still fit with people pleasing!
Basically, lol.
Oh so very much this! I can't stand most alcohol so I end up sticking with soft drinks, and the difference in price is huge! I drink slowly, and have a lot of food allergies and intolerances, too. I end up with a small meal and a single soft drink, I'm not going to pay a fifth of the bill when everyone else has three alcoholic drinks and a steak.

In my circles you pay for yourself by default. If you want to cover someone else's bill at the last minute go right ahead, but trying to get someone else to pay your bill? That's a very quick way to make sure you're not invited again.
Ugh. There was a woman in my parents group who didn’t drive. Whenever we all went out for dinner, first she’d whinge until someone went out of their way to pick up/drop her off. THEN, because she “wasn’t driving” she’d have 4-5 wines or a few cocktails. Interestingly enough, she’d always comment that the wine list was SO expensive. Even more interesting, whenever the bill came, she was always the first to say “so we’re all just splitting it, right, because it’s easiest?” … F that. I stopped going out with them.
I decide WHERE I spend my money. Even just a small amount. Rather donate FOOD to a shelter than feed LEECHES
Count me in, too!
You make too much sense! But until they are called out on their bad behavior, they’re gonna keep doing it (and of course, try the reverse-victim move).
Shush! It's fun to imagine petty scenarios for a little while. 😉
AITA for making my pregnant SIL cry when she kept asking why I changed my name?
My brother (30m) is married to Hailey (29f) and they're expecting a baby together. Last year I (17f) officially changed my first name from Evelyn to Indie (which was a nickname form of my original middle name). My parents gave in after realizing how serious I was about being Indie and how I was not warming up to or growing into Evelyn. 

My brother and Hailey want an older/vintage name for their baby and Hailey asked me about 5 months ago why I disliked Evelyn enough to change the name. At the time she brought up how popular the name has become and how vintage is back. I told her I didn't like vintage names and to me it sounded really old fashioned. I told her the popularity didn't influence my decision. She wanted to know my reason for disliking older names and why I liked something like Indie instead. I didn't mind her asking this first time.

She brought it up again a week later and she asked the same question and pressed more for why. She asked a third and a fourth time. I gave her the same answer and asked her why she kept asking me. I told her my answer wasn't going to change. By the seventh time she asked she admitted she was worried her baby would hate having an older name and wanted to figure out what she could do to prevent what happened with me happening to her. She also said she'd like me to rethink my name because she thought Evelyn was beautiful and she was sad I had chosen something like Indie over it. I asked her to stop so many times already and I even asked my brother to stop her. He told me I needed to understand it was the hormones. I can easily say she has asked me this more than 25 times by now. I'm not exaggerating that number either.

Two weeks ago when she brought it up again she felt like I had made a mistake changing my name and how 30 year old me wouldn't be so against Evelyn. I told her 30 year old me can deal with it if that happens. She told me I didn't really have a good reason to like the name and Indie seemed like the kind of name someone young likes but not someone older. Then yesterday happened and I kinda lost my temper. She started out asking the same stuff and the baby is almost ready to be born so I know it's coming to an end but she asked me to really think about why and help her because she couldn't figure out what she'd do differently than my parents did. Then she said they really shouldn't have let me change my name so young. I snapped and I told her to stop asking me the same question because my answer won't change and her comments are not changing my mind because I don't like old fashioned names. I told her I think they're awful and I'm sick and tired of hearing about how much better they are and having her try to make me find a reason she finds acceptable. I told her just like she hates Indie, I hate Evelyn and she needs to let it fucking go already. She burst into tears and my brother got so mad at me. My parents were also like why did I have to speak to her so harshly.

AITA? 
Welcome to /r/AmITheAsshole. Please view our [voting guide here](https://www.reddit.com/r/AmItheAsshole/wiki/faq#wiki_what.2019s_with_these_acronyms.3F_what_do_they_mean.3F), and remember to use **only one** judgement in your comment.

OP has offered the following explanation for why they think they might be the asshole:

 > I made my pregnant SIL cry because she kept asking why I changed my name and why I didn't like my original name. She's pregnant and I was already asked to be understanding and then I go and snap at her and make her cry in front of my family which is sorta shitty and isn't me being very nice/kind.

Help keep the sub engaging!

#Don’t downvote assholes!

Do upvote interesting posts!

 [Click Here For Our Rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/AmItheAsshole/about/rules) and [Click Here For Our FAQ](https://www.reddit.com/r/AmItheAsshole/wiki/faq)

##Subreddit Announcements

Follow the link above to learn more

---

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose/?to=/r/AmItheAsshole) if you have any questions or concerns.*

*Contest mode is 1.5 hours long on this post.*
NTA

  
" She also said she'd like me to rethink my name " .. this makes her the AH.  

"she needs to let it fucking go already." .. this is the only reasonable response. REFUSE to discuss this with her any more.



And your brother and parents need to either shut HER up, or accept that you will do it yourself.
>I told her just like she hates Indie, I hate Evelyn and she needs to let it fucking go already. She burst into tears and my brother got so mad at me. My parents were also like why did I have to speak to her so harshly.

If you reacted like this the very first time she asked, then you'd be a bit of an AH ... But, after months of her asking you the same thing over, and over, and over, your reaction is justified. I hate the " you must understand it's the pregnancy hormones " spiel - being pregnant doesn't give you a free pass to be an AH. 

NTA
NTA. Her behavior is really weird. Why ask repeatedly? And what’s it to her, whether you choose to use Evelyn or Indie? It has nothing to do with her or her baby. I don’t understand why she’s so obsessed with your name.
NTA - This: 'She told me I didn't really have a good reason to like the name and Indie seemed like the kind of name someone young likes but not someone older.', You don't need her good reason to change your name just your good reason to change your name.  After 25 times of the same bullying from her, I would have snapped at her as well.  Because it is bullying she was doing, for what purpose, who knows?  And it is not hormones and as to why you needed to speak harshly to her, well it was because she kept bullying you over you changing your name, tell your parents and brother is was like when you were kids traveling with your parents and you kept asking, 'Are we there yet?' over and over and over again and how they finally snapped at you to shut up?  Yeah, it was like that.
NTA pregnancy or not she would be testing anyone’s patience the way she was carrying on. Tell your parents exactly how many time you have had the same disrespectful conversation with her and ask them what they would have done. Also tell your brother that you had told him how irritating she was being and asked him to tell her to stop which he didn’t, therefore the situation is as much his fault as hers.
If someone continues to question your identity, and they don't accept you for who you are, and if they ignore your explanation and request to move on....they are bullies and discriminatory. 


So, no surprise she burst into tears and is playing the victim now because that's what entitled bullies do when they are challenged.


NTA Indie 
NTA. Your response is what happens when someone constantly badgers you after being repeatedly told to stop. Maybe now she'll stop bothering you.
OMG. It’s not hormones. She is talking down to you and lecturing you because you’re 17. She’s saying you don’t know what you want and shouldn’t be allowed to choose anything for yourself. I’d be so mad!! I’d have reamed her out just like you did. And she’s only pregnant. I’ve been pregnant twice and it’s not a terminal disease, or an excuse to treat others badly. Your brother and mother should both tell to stop already.
I legally changed my name from an old fashioned name to my nickname that I’d gone by my whole life. My parents and family could not understand why I didn’t just keep going by my nickname, but I hated my real name and I hated seeing it on everything. I was coming to an end on my second degree and I just couldn’t stand the idea of seeing that name again on the degree. So I went through the process and changed it. My name my choice, if my kids hate their names (they have unique names) then I will help them change it. Their name, their choice. Also I just had my third child and no being pregnant does not mean you can do whatever you want and get away with it because you’re pregnant. Yes you have extra hormones raging through your body but that doesn’t changed your communication skills, manors, or
Knowing right from wrong 🙄.

I’m happy for you OP enjoy your official name change and continue being you!
NTA

But in the future when she starts, just stare at her a second and walk off. Because this is not going to end once the baby is born. She will bring it up every time she tells someone her child’s name and will follow up with a passive aggressive comment about how its better than the name you chose.
You’re 17. Just blame your hormones for snapping at her. Seems to work fine for the pregnant lady, why not the teenager?
Pregnancy causes a woman to undergo many changes. Last I checked not a single one of them was a free pass to bully someone over their name. NTA
NTA - you were immensely patient for putting up with it for as long as you did, and your outburst is completely understandable. It doesn’t matter that she is pregnant and “it’s the hormones” only goes so far.

Sure, you could have been less aggressive in your final response, but she also could have stopped asking the same question 20+ times ago.

By the way, Indie is a cool fucking name, hell yeah! (It makes me think of Indiana Jones… *you were named after the DOG???*).
I would ask your parents “how many times do you think Hailey has confronted me about my name? 2, 3 6? She has been harassing me, yes harassing me, for months, she has been trying to bully me into loving a name you all know I hate. Why do none of you care a grown adult has been bullying me?”

Really push the issue. She has been bullying you. Pregnant or not, it does not give her the freedom to bully you
Nta


She is realizing children are autonomous human beings and can grow up different to parental expectations. And she's going nuclear because she needs her baby to be a doll who does exactly what she wants.


That poor kid. 


Good luck. 
NTA. I too hate my “vintage name”
I tried to get my parents to agree to at least let me change it to my middle name, but I really wanted something different than that as well. But alas my mother was 40+ when she had me aeons ago and she loved the name because she grew up with women with that name.
After you become adult and get professional licenses, etc it becomes more difficult to change, so it stayed. I do have to say I’ve never met anyone my age with that name (the older ladies are quite probably all deceased). I’ve only ever seen one child with my name in the 27 years working in a pediatric hospital, I inwardly groaned for that little girl 🤣
[removed]
NTA. I am so tired of hearing "it's the hormones". No, it's you being rude and obnoxious.
>My parents were also like why did I have to speak to her so harshly.

"Because she's asked me the same dang question more than 25 times and I'm at my wits end! I've answered her, I've asked her to stop with the questions, if this is what gets through to her then I'm not sorry."

NTA.
You were so patient, NTA.  I would have snapped the second time, told her to f*ck off the third time and if there was a 4th time it would have been the last time I saw her.  Your sil is rude and annoying.  She's given me a pain in my ass only reading about her 🤣
WTF? Being pregnant does not give people a free pass to be annoying. NTA

Your brother and your parents can dote on her and watch her cry her fool eyes out. You changed your name and maybe someday her little Agatha will change her name too. Maybe not. The baby isn't even born yet, there's plenty of time to worry about that.
NTA.

btw: I chose a different name when I was 14. Was only able to change it officially when I was 32 (German name changing laws suck) and was forced to choose at least one gendered name, because my "new" one (that I had since 14) wasn't on par with my gender assigned at birth.
Now, nearly 42, I'll finally be able to get rid of the gendered names.

So the "you're to young to know what you want" stuff is BS.
Don't let anyone tell you otherwise. A name is an identity and only you know. If it changes along the way, then so be it. But that doesn't necessarily has anything to do with age, but with what formed you as a person.
I'm taking bets that if she has a girl, she'll name it Evelyn.
NTA. You were extremely patient and kind to her through the first 25+ times she violated your boundaries. It makes sense that she’s anxious about naming her baby, but you shouldn’t have to bear the brunt of it.
The worst part about this is they are excusing her behaviour on being pregnant and then this woman your brother will be parents!! My god !! The entitlement and selfishness on those two!!! NTA and show them this post!
NTA. The plain fact is that there's no secret trick to picking a name that your baby is guaranteed to like as they grow up. You cannot tell her what your parents did wrong and how she can avoid it, because they didn't do anything wrong. The name just didn't fit you in the end. 

The only thing your sister-in-law can do, is her best. Pick out a name she likes, that she thinks will fit her baby, and that she thinks will set them up for a good adulthood. That's all anyone can do. And she needs to learn to be understanding that in twenty years, if her child decides to make a change, it won't be a rejection of her parenting. It's a difference in taste and personality, not some existential crisis of familial feeling...unless she makes it into one.

>My parents were also like why did I have to speak to her so harshly.

Because she wouldn't let it drop. 

If you'd been harsh the first time the subject came up, then yeah, you'd be an asshole. But you have been immensely patient, and your SIL keeps on insisting on going over the subject again and again, demanding an answer you cannot give (and essentially trying to berate you into changing your mind and being a different person). 

Hormones or not, this is her problem not yours - and she needs to find a way to resolve her insecurities about being a new mum, without harassing you.
Wtf your SIL stirring up drama when she got what she deserved she be crying like a victim lol
Kid’s liking their own name is a crap shoot. Some people just don’t like whatever their given name is. Maybe they were given a hippy name and are a very serious person who wants a nice boring name. Maybe their a free spirit, but named after their granny. Most people are going to like or tolerate their names enough that sil needs to chill. The odds are in her favor. 

I like Indie and gender neutral names are in right now just like vintage names are in. I’ve known a guy Indie, a dog Indie, and I always thought it was adorable. I read it’s can be short for Indigo, India, or a few other names when used for girls. I love Indigo and Indie by themselves. I love Eve, don’t like Evelyn myself. Sometimes we don’t know why a name doesn’t feel right and sometimes we do know. 
NTA
NTA. It's not the hormones, she has mental issues, feel sorry for the baby.
NTA. This is not pregnancy hormones. This is someone being rude and intrusive.
Nta 

I'm really upset that she said she was sad you didn't keep the name Evelyn. If she likes it so much, she can change her name to Evelyn. 

I haven't used my legal name for 20 years. In school, at work, my badges... they all have my chosen name. Many people don't know my legal name, because it doesn't matter. Call me what I tell you to or feel free not to speak to me. Not difficult. 

You also didn't "make" her cry. She picked and picked and picked. If you poke a bear enough, it will bite.
Nta. You should’ve BEEN spoken harshly to her. Her opinion doesn’t matter. She acts this way with her kid and her kid is going to hate HER, not their name. Also she’s a grown woman and you’re a child. Fuck her feelings. Being pregnant doesn’t make you special despite what some people believe. People can say whatever they want (as long as it doesn’t break the law) and all she can do is cry about it. She’s so lucky she has you and not me cause man at 17 and at 28, she’d be CRYINGGGGG. If it’s one thing I DESPISE, it’s how people police other folks names. It’s YOUR NAME! I’ve had people tell me I can’t spell “Brie” bc my name is “Brianna” and there’s no “e”. Bro it’s MY NAME! I can spell it however I want. If you can get Peggy from Margaret and dick from Richard, you can definitely get Brie from Brianna. I’ve honestly been considering just making my name legally Brie bc Brianna isn’t me. But if I change my first name, I want to change them all. I hate my middle name and last name. I never use my middle name to the point that I sometimes doubt I’m spelling it correctly 💀
[removed]
NTA! Twenty five times? I would have snapped around seven. Your brother should have stepped in when you talked to him about it.  And I dont know about hormones - but this sounds like it was just plain rude and not estrogen based.
NTA - Tell your brother and parents this wouldn’t have happened if they would have stepped in, or if she would have shown some basic respect.
So your family stood back and listened to her  obsessively, asking you the same question over and over and over, and nobody stepped in to tell her to stop? And you're the bad guy??? 
NTA. If nobody is going to fight your corner, then you were left with no choice but to shut her down. You tried the nice way (more times than i would), and it didn't work, so you eventually snapped. As anyone would!
You are not only upset because it’s childish and annoying. You are also upset because she is telling you over thirty times that the name you chose is awful. And spoiler alert: it’s not her decision. Your brother sucks for not nipping this in the bud weeks ago. He could have diffused the situation long before this. 

There was a story on here where a guy was asked the same question over and over so he made this passive-aggressive PowerPoint with the same answers. You should do this in case it’s brought up again. lol. 

NTA.

PS. So I found the story, it isn’t exactly how I described but here it is.

https://www.reddit.com/r/AmItheAsshole/s/AxuZEauW1u
NTA.  Your SIL has a problem .. and it’s not hormones
NTA

Being pregnant  isn't  a free pass to be as rude and obnoxious  as you like.
NTA. You have learnt a valuable life experience here… when something is annoying you, shut it down before you snap.
NTA. It’s your name, so it’s your choice on what it is, not hers.

Also, speaking to someone a bit angrier at some one because they keep pestering you with the same questions even after you have asked them repeatedly to stop may be the only way sometimes, and it your case it definitely seems kind of warranted.
You have every right to feel what you feel and be called what you wanna be called .

I see why your SIL freaks out because she is picking a name for her baby which will impact them to a certain degree so seeing how much you hate your name makes her freak out . Doesn't change the fact that you did not connect to the name . I wonder if one day kids can choose their own name . many ppl would chose different names .

She is becoming a new mom I hope she has enough support system to not make her freak out with all her choices because at the end of the day all parents make mistakes and she already fears her child will hate her for the name before it is even born.
NTA. Asked and answered. I’m clear with my friends and family. You wanna ask a question fine ask and I’ll answer but I won’t repeat myself and you asking the question a million times won’t change the answer and if I have to repeat myself you won’t like the response. You were patient to put up with it to that point. You asked your brother to step in and he dismissed your feelings putting it off as her hormones. Her hormones are her problem not yours and not an excuse for her to make you uncomfortable or unhappy. She got what she had coming and if he had stepped in that wouldn’t have happened
NTA. She’s an AS.
Being pregnant is not an excuse to be a jerk, NTA!
NTA. But I would have a serious talk to your brother about MH sources post pregnancy. If she struggles to accept this, she may very well struggle with other things.
Whatever names you pick, your kids might end up not liking them. 

We went to a lot of trouble trying to find names that are neither too rare nor too common, neither too old fashioned nor too modern, not too difficult to spell, that sound nice, that as far as we could see contained no invitation for bullying.... 
I was so proud of the names we found, just assuming the kids would like them.

The oldest changed their name cos they are nb.

The youngest just dislikes her name, and wished we had picked something I personally think of as an awful name.

The middle one seems to be okay with hers. 

There just is no guarantee.
Tell her to shut up. You aren’t passing a judgment on her child’s name.
[removed]
I think in hindsight you should have stoped this earlier. Before it got to the point of explosion. Say to her after the 5th time I’ve told you this already I’m not going to discuss this with you again. And each time she asked repeat but shorter responses so you end up with you just walking out the room shaking your when she brings it up. 

But that’s just my opinion cos I think taking to her she just wanted you to say you’d go back to Evelyn before she’d drop it.
NTA I have to wonder, is it possible she's so attached to this because she and your brother had chosen to name the baby Evelyn because of your name and she's panicking because the baby supposedly won't be named after you anymore? I'd ask your brother if he knows anything more about why she keeps asking, and don't take "it's just hormones" for an answer; hormones are wild but there's got to be something more to this.
NTA she continually pushed the subject despite getting an answer initially.

You can suggest you both apologise. She apologises first for pushing you constantly on the subject and harasding you to the point of snapping. You apologise for snapping. Then everyone else apologises for not seeing it as harassment and blaming you fkr snapping.

A name is just a placeholder for the person, it doesn't define them or restrict them. Parents think its really special and they need to select something meaningful, but its just a name.

SIL is definitely projecting. She wants to understand why you didn't like your name so she can pick something which her new child won't dislike. Forgetting that people can dislike names for any reason  and no matter what she picks the child may dislike it and want to be called something else.

My cousin is professionally known by his middle name because he doesn't like "Ian", his forename, which his mom picked because she dkesn't like abbreviated names, and you can't really shorten Ian - except his friends did, to just "e".

So people hate common names, vintage names, character names, the same name as a celeb, the same name as someone else, names of flowers.  It doesn't matter.  Its just a name.
You're named after the dog?
NTA

She needled and needled and needled you until you lashed out. That’s her problem. Don’t apologise unless she does first.
NTA - “asked and answered” and then ignore any further questions in future.
NTA after the first time that's it. Her hormones don't go nothing to do with her not dropping it. Even you snapping wasn't that bad.
NTA 

She's being completely disrespectful. And the fixation is a bit worrisome. Does she have other obsessive behaviours?

For anyone else in a similar situation, here are a couple of suggestions to set some boundaries:

Tell her something like, "we've already had this conversation.  Please refer to my previous answers" and then change the subject. If she continues the conversation,  get up and walk away with a comment like "does anyone else want a drink?"

If it continues, type up your answer, and when she asks, hand her the printout and then change the subject as per above. Then keep one in your pocket at all times.
NTA. Your SIL caused the problem therefore her suffering is deserved.
NTA. 

She was badgering you. She didn’t want your opinion, she wanted your validation. When she didn’t get it, she turned against you and ultimately tried to manipulate you into agreeing with her by crying.

She sounds like an immature, manipulative person. Yuck.
NTA. As someone else said, she’s projecting. You told her multiple times, she refused your answers and kept badgering you. I don’t blame you for snapping. Being pregnant doesn’t give her cart blanche to behave how she wants. I’ve been pregnant twice and am now in menopause so again the hormones have hit me. Never would I behave like this. She asked, you told her. End of
NTA.

You did not make anyone cry. Your sister-in-law did that all on her own. She's like a dog with a bone, gnawing away on that same spot, until eventually it breaks.

Tell your parents that you want them to get harassed by her on the way they raised you, and to hear the same questions over and over and over, and realize that she's not listening at all to their answers. Let them know that your answer to her question hasn't changed, but that her responses have gotten more insensitive and downright demanding.

If I were talking to her, I'd tell her exactly what she doesn't want to hear: "Your daughter will eventually dislike her own name." Because, in my experience, most girls do. Most of us also grow out of that desire to change it, but some don't.
I'd tell your parents and brother you've had this same conversation with her for months and it's just gone in circles. Tell them you've asked her to stop asking and bothering you about it but she hasn't. Tell them she's kept pushing and disrespecting your boundaries about your decision which has nothing to do with her and you finally had enough so snapped.
NTA. Your parents and brother should have stepped in to protect you from her harassment rather than berate you for eventually snapping at her. She was completely unhinged and they did nothing.
NTA. Tell them no one addressed her crossing your boundaries, so you corrected that in now uncertain terms. 
you’re better than me. pregnant or not ? i personally would’ve cussed her out more than that and would’ve cussed out my brother for allowing his wife to act like a child whose throwing a tantrum because they didn’t get the soda they wanted. i’m sorry but no matter her reasoning, her hyper fixation on your dead name & trying to convince you to change it back is honestly really strange. that’s not hormones.
Should have just stonewalled her the moment the question got repeated.

"Remind me, what was my answer last time? That's the answer" remove self from room.

The next time. " do you know that the theory of insanity is asking the same question and expecting a different answer?"

The next time. " are you okay? You sound like a broken record?? I believe we've discussed this."
This will probably get lost but I just wanna say it’s really cool your parents supported your name choice. When I was 18 I decided to go by a nickname because I didn’t want to be called by my first name anymore. I’m 28, everyone calls me by the nickname. Except my parents which I’ve accepted, but stinks. They always treated it like such a ridiculous thing. 

And when we see extended family, sometimes they’ll say my first name and then quickly correct to my nickname, which makes me feel good. But last time my mom told them they can just call me FirstName. And I was like no?? It’s the weirdest battle, I swear. It’s been 10 years! 

NTA, this woman would drive me nuts lol. Oh and my name is an old one too, named after a great aunt. I feel you!
NTA, tell her to change HER OWN fucking name to Agatha and move on.
NTA.


I understand you OP, I have an overly religious name and since I was a kid I hated it. I used lots of nicknames through my life and BEGGED my family to stop using whatever stupid cutesy nickname they make out of it to try and convince me to like it (it did not work). I use my grandpa's nickname and insist on it...still get scolded about hating my name, still get drama about it, and still getting asked as to why I hate my name...since I was 7.



Your SIL is upset her list of names might not be everyone's liking and first, who cares name your child Lada Dashboard for all we care...and second, using it as an excuse to hound you and annoy you is unnecessary.


Was the tone rude? Yes.
Was it earned? Absolutely. 
I use the the phrase’ It’s not my responsibility to make you understand ’ when someone does this. I would’ve have shut her down a lot sooner than OP did.
NTA. 

If you'd ripped into her the first time she asked, then yes, you'd be an AH. But you didn't. You did after she asked you 25+ times and wouldn't actually *listen* to your answers. 

Your family needs to tell your SIL to drop it "for the sake of family" - why is she allowed to harass you for months, but you're not allowed to defend yourself?
How is Indie not an old fashioned name? The only Indie I’ve ever heard used to fight the Nazis over hidden relics, he’s old AF now
Clearly NTA.  There’s a saying in 12 step rooms: “Insanity is doing the same thing, over and over again, expecting different results.”  Like, “it didn’t work the first 25 times, but I’m sure it will work the 26th time” is absolutely ridiculous thinking.  She long ago crossed the line from conversation to bullying.  Now she’s just trying to bully you into giving an answer she can live with. NTA
As someone who also changed her name (as a full ass adult) and is tired of doing emotional labor for my mother over it, you’re not the asshole. Not at all. NTA
NTA 

My son is transgender. When he announced his new name I was very upset bcz I loved the name I had given him and felt I should have had a say in his new name. (I know... Completely selfish of me.) I finally told him I would go along with his new name but I got to pick the middle name... Rhys... So I could call him butter cup. He agreed. He now actually uses his middle name at times. 

A few years ago, my dear friends shared that their child was also transitioning/non binary... And wanted to change their name. They handled it with such grace. They explained it to me that a name is a gift you give your child. Sometimes the gift fits perfectly, sometimes it's the wrong size it color and needs to be exchanged. It doesn't mean the gift wasnt appreciated, but the receiver just preferred something slightly different. It's not a huge deal as long as you all still love and support each other.

That was very eye opening to me. And really put things into perspective. Your SIL doesn't know anything about this kid yet. Nothing is permanent and the kiddo will let them know what fits as the journey continues.
Ummm…no offense but all the people on the opposing side of this argument sound kinda nuts. It’s your fucking name and none of your SIL’s business. Tell her if she likes Evelyn so much to name her own kid that. Hormones my ass. Your SIL sounds like one of those people who think everyone in the world should think, act, believe, behave…exactly like her. And when they don’t, she has the right to force them to. (She’s going to be a shitty mother with that outlook. Her kid: “Mom, I don’t like chocolate ice cream.” SIL: “What! Yes you do! You have to! I like it! You have to like it!” And I say all that while at the same time agreeing with her on the Evelyn/Indie choice. But I get where you are coming from because I too hate my name and have hated it my entire life. I wish I’d had your moxie when I was young and changed it but I didn’t and it’s way too late now. Anyway, stick to your guns. It’s your life.
In answer to the question, kinda "Yes", except using your words in a reasonable way, repeatedly, was not making her JUST FUCKING STOP ALREADY - so NTA, because if something isn't working, you have to do something differently. Pregnancy hormones are not a get out of jail free card for anything/everything: you had already explained "just because" and you are allowed to have your own opinions.

Yes, I am kinda triggered because I get sick and tired of having to explain the unusual spelling of my normal-sounding name, which came up in conversation at work yesterday when I was already tired and stressed and frankly just not in the mood.

So, you have my sympathy OP, and congratulations on just changing your name - I'm middle aged now and legally changing my name would be more tiresome than it's worth, plus I don't actually hate it as such, only being forced to explain when someone discovers my full name: I use a common-as-muck short version FOR A REASON.
As someone who changed their name from my decades most popular, I feel this in my bones. NTA . You’re the only person who has to like your name and your sil can fuck off.
NTA Her continued questions and comments were disrespectful You changed your name and answered She just kept going back telling you how to feel about it You asked over and over for her to stop Obviously if you changed your name it’s a hot topic for you She just had to keep trying to make herself right Naming a baby is difficult but you shouldn’t be her punching bag You should be able to have your name and not conform to what she wants just because she can’t get over it Hormones make you emotional not a bully NTAEveryone who let this go on is almost as much of a ah or bully as she is
NTA
NTA she fucked around and found out. You were far more patient than I would have been
Pregnancy hormones is a poor excuse for harassment. I could see maybe the first week of asking but months of and dozens of inquisitions is going way too far. I would have exploded far sooner than you did.
I think you’ve been quite patient with her and she’s in the wrong, don’t worry about it. Everyone will forget about it when she has her baby. 
NTA!  Being pregnant and the "hormones" are not an excuse.  I'm so sick and tired of this excuse for horrible behavior.  Your brother is the AH because he should have talked to his wife instead of enabling her bad behavior.  Finally your parents are also AHs because they should have also stepped up on your behalf instead of chastising you for being too "harsh".
NTA.

She's an idiot.
NTA. I love my vintage name and always have. But I am an individual and understand people are different. This was months of hounding you over your opinion not being correct. If you can, take a break from them.
She started her debat with you OVER 25 TIMES !?!

She might be pregnant, but you are NTA.

Your brother should have stopped this a long time ago.
NTA. You didn’t speak with her harshly the first time. You didn’t speak with her harshly the tenth time. You firmly stated your opinion over and over again.  She’s the one who needs a talking to. 

Oh, and news flash for SIL. She has NO CONTROL over whether or not her children will like their name.  They might like it and feel it suits them. Or they might never relate to it and choose to go by something completely different.
NTA. 


She doesn’t yet understand that you cannot force your child to like or dislike a certain aesthetic. Her child may grow up loving more vintage names (though with the popularity of them now they’re no longer really vintage) or their child may hate them. She can’t control that. Or any other aspect of her child-to-be’s likes, dislikes, aptitudes, interests etc. She’s got it twisted in her mind that if she can convince you to like your name then that means she can ensure that her child loves their name too. It’s wrong. 


I don’t think you were wrong finally snapping at her and you need to make it clear to your parents and brother that this was the last straw after months of nagging from her. 


Your experience of growing up with a vintage name will be different to her child’s experience. Vintage names are popular now, they were uncommon when you were younger so was likely a source of unwanted difference between you and your peers. And, y’know, you just don’t like the name. That’s fine too. No further reason needed. I just don’t like some names too- we all do. Naming preferences are very individual.
NTA but your parents and brother are, for not having your back. Ain’t nobody treating my kid that way when I can step in and say that crap ends NOW. They should not have left you deal with it alone, and even less come yapping at you after you kept your cool for a considerable time and only then snapped at her.

Names are very personal. There is no way to be sure your kid will like the name you gave them for the rest of their lives. They might swap to using a nickname, the middle name or version of them or get a new name completely and it is for the family to deal with their own feelings over it and respect the name the person chooses.

Maybe the best you can do is give the baby two or three names that are slightly different style so they actually have a choice between them and might feel less need for changing it. After that, you can only hope for the best and keep listening to the growing individual human being you are responsible for.

And as a parent, the big thing to realize is - it is not about me. I can listen and support and respect but my children are not my extensions or my property. 

Your SIL and probably also your brother have a long way to go and to grow as parents.
NTA. There's a limit to this. Especially when she is openly insulting you, your judgment, and the name you chose, not just asking you a question.
Nta because she dragged the conversation on for months and wouldn't let it go. You already explained your reasons to her, not that you owed her an explanation.
Tell your parents and brother that you did it because it would work, and you had already tried everything else that did not work. 

And see? it is working. She isn't insulting you any more.
Ironic because I loved my vintage name growing up and then got sick of it as an adult 

Names are so personal and everyone should be able to change theirs if they want. Badgering someone about it is just rude, and after the 30th time you lashed out. Well, lashing out might be the only thing that makes her respect your boundaries so NTA 
NTA. If she ever asks you again why you don't like old fashioned names, just refuse to say a word. She's bullying you so if you don't speak or react, she'll probably lose interest. If she still persists, go no contact.

Also, all that stuff about harmones is bullshit. They might make her emotional but she'd be a bully with or without pregnancy harmones. Don't expect her to behave differently after the baby is born.
You sure you didn't name yourself after the family dog? NTA
NTA

Somebody needs to tell her to mind her own business.

Sounds like she has some issues there.

Is she considering a weird name for her own kid and is afraid the kid will resent her for it and also change their name some day?
NTA 

You tried every way to get her to stop and NO ONE wanted to help you. All these people saying you were harsh DID NOTHING so they don’t get to say anything. If they didn’t want her to hear harsh words THEY should’ve said something.
NTA this has been ongoing for months, you told her your answer wouldn’t change and asked your brother to stop her. The baby being born doesn’t necessarily guarantee she’d have stopped. 
NTA. I wish you had declined to participate in any of these conversations after the first one, but I understand the power dynamic that may have made that difficult. SIL did this to herself.
NTA, obviously

 My mum really wanted to name me Evelyn, but my dad disliked it and talked her into something more plain. I'm really glad he did. It's not that I *dislike* Evelyn, but I do dislike it *for me*.

 Aside from obvious SIL AH behaviour (pregnancy is not a pass for being a dick), I feel like brother is an AH here too. From his response, it feels like her hormones *have* been an issue (probably in more ways than simply name anxiety), and he'd prefer it if everyone else modified their behaviour bhi to appease her - for example, you being infinitely tolerant of her disrespecting your feelings and choices regarding your name - because it saves him having to address her behaviour himself. The "it'll get better when the baby is born" sounds like it's just as much about reassuring himself as it is about reassuring you. This situation perhaps could have been avoided by him actually having a discussion with *her* when you brought it up, rather than putting it on you to spend most of nine months pretending it isn't weird and rude for a grown woman to be constantly badgering you about your own name. All it would have taken on his part was "hey, babe, listen, I know pregnancy is hard and this name thing is getting to you, and if you're really anxious about it we can talk it through, but you have to leave my sibling alone about her name because that's her business and her choice". And, I don't know, that might have been a difficult conversation, but being real: all being well with SIL's pregnancy, brother is going to be spending the next several years managing the emotions of a person who is irrational, cries a lot, has undeveloped social skills, and will probably be prone to asking a lot of annoying questions at times, so it probably would have paid for him to get some practise in now.
NTA, her pregnancy gives her no right to pester you in this way.
NTA I probably even would have added, that it's your name, not hers so why can't she mind her own GD business?

If this is how she is with someone else's child,  I can only imagine how she's going to be with her own. God forbid her child ends up disliking their *vintage name*, because she'll lose her GD mind
NTA. SIL's pregnant, so she gets to bully you? Stuff that for a joke - you are still a kid. The family may be terribly excited about the baby, but that doesn't give her a licence to be insensitive and pick on you. The whole situation is caused by her being insecure about her name choices. Your brother is indulging her rather than giving her sensible advice, i.e. "leave my little sister alone, ffs"

She should apologise - if she shows it's genuine, you might accept it. Or not.
You are NTA, and you definitely didn't make her cry. She made herself cry by being such an annoying and controlling person
NTA.  It sounds like you tried to be patient and honest with her and it just wasn’t getting through. Hormones or not, she should have stopped with the questions after a time or two. She should pick a name and go for it.
NTA, being pregnant doesn’t mean you get a pass on being an AH and hormones aren’t an excuse.
Tell her to change her own name to Evelyn if she likes it so much.

NTA
You spoke so harshly because regardless of hormones (which I think as someone who has been pregnant twice is bs) she kept at you which was upsetting you too. You don't need to justify YOUR name change to anyone and they are just enabling her.
Just because someone is pregnant and has ‘hormones’ doesn’t excuse their poor behavior. Asking questions about why you changed your name once or twice is normal. Bringing it up over and over in an attempt to control you or how her future baby will feel is not ok. NTA.
What’s the name she has chosen for the baby?!
Nah, NTA. you had been backed into a corner and frankly, like others have said, bullied, into giving an acceptable answer for your reasoning as to why you wanted to change your name. As someone who didn't care for their name for YEARS, I get it.

It just sucks that you're 17, so everyone is dog piling on you like you're being a brat when I KNOW they know all of that repeated questioning about the same damn thing is annoying. Tbh, they probably didn't stop her because THEY felt some kind of way about you changing your name and just let her keep going.
NTA she spent months pestering you. She could not let it go and you finally reacted. It doesn’t matter if it was the hormones or not, your SIL was not letting it go and you finally snapped.
Anyone else think she’s going to name the baby Evelyn? NTA btw
I’m impressed with the amount of patience you had before you finally snapped. NTA.
I'm pregnant currently, and I've never used the "Oh, it's just hormones." on anyone. The only time I've done that is when I've dropped food after just making it and being so incredibly upset with my butterfingers that I can't help but cry. People who use it as an excuse for shitty behavior, though, need to stop.
You are NTA, but you should probably apologize anyway.  And your apology should go something like this:  I'm sorry I snapped at you, but you need to realize that harassing someone until they reach the breaking point is unacceptable.  I get that you're wrapped up in anxiety that your kid won't like their name, but that has nothing to do with me.  Making me the scapegoat of your fears is not fair to me.  I like the name I chose; I don't like the name my parents gave me.  The end.  Don't bring it up again or I will snap again.
NTA ask your parents and brother why they didn’t put a stop to it months ago. Every time she mentions your name change yell “quit bullying me about my name!” Pregnancy hormones do not give her a pass to bully you about your name change (& that is what she is doing.)  You have tried nice and polite 25 times, now try yelling. Sometimes to put a stop to a-hole/aggressive/rude behavior you have to be a bit a-hole/aggressive/rude back.
Nta. She kept pushing and you lost it. It happens. That’s on her.
I totally understand why you snapped. You’ve explained yourself so many times, and it’s exhausting when someone keeps pushing you on a personal decision like your name. While it might have come off harsh, it seems like you were just setting boundaries after being repeatedly asked the same thing. Hopefully, with time, your SIL will understand that your choice is yours to make, and it deserves respect.
NTA and the next time she brings it up, plug your ears and scream
She is going to do it differently from your parents lol. Instead of respecting her child's opinions and preferences, she's going to demean and harass them for not being exactly like her. 

A child is an actual person, not an art project you can design to your personal taste.
I hate when people use “hormones” as an excuse for not controlling what comes out of a woman’s mouth. Very misogynistic. They are simply morons, call it what it is. OP is NTA.
NTA.  Who wants to be named after smelly old people?  Gross!  Indie is you.  I HATE my name and it's a pain in the ass to change it.  I ask my kid all the time if she's okay with her name.  However, she loves it.

It's just better to change while young.
At 18 my daughter changed her last name, dropping her father’s name and taking my last name. At 18 my son changed his middle and last names. Again dropping his father’s last name and taking my last name. The middle name was just his preference. The family didn’t bat an eye. 

Honestly, I wish I had had the nerve to legally switch my first and middle names legally. 

Be proud of your decision. Carry on!

Edit: add, not the AH
I don't understand the whole "vintage is back" thing. I've seen it referenced in several posts. First, that trend will pass. Will the parents change the name when a new trend comes along? Also, who wants to hang a name on their kid that will forever tell everyone exactly how old they are. (Like the poor kids named Khaleesi.) 

And apparently you DID need to speak harshly, as she wasn't hearing you. NTA.
NTA. Oh how the actual A Hs love to push and push and push until the victims of their assholery snap. Then they think that makes them the victim. 

B & SIL can pick any name in the whole world, and their child can still grow up to want to change it. 

We were set on naming our daughter Heather, but once we were holding her, we said “Nope, she’s not a Heather.” Their bundle of joy can very well dislike their name anyway. Their worry is them putting themselves in a lose-lose situation.
Tell SIL that it must have been others constantly telling you how great your former "vintage" name was.  Every time someone said (and says) that, your hatred of the name grew.  The lack of others listening to your concerns until you changed your name caused the resentment to grow and grow.  You were finally getting to the point of not hating vintage names until SIL started browbeating you about it .  Now, you will likely never like the name again.

What can SIL do differently?  Leave your nibling alone about the name and respect nibling 's wishes. 

You will have done your nibling a great service.
NTA. I would have told her to F off after the third time.
NTA

  
"My parents were also like why did I have to speak to her so harshly."

  
I don't know, could be the fact that no matter how many times she asked, and then started practically insulting you for it, she just kept at it, pushing and pushing and pushing and pushing and pushing. If she can't take the eventually scream of stop asking me for the love of all breakdown answer, she should have probably stopped after the first time she asked the question.
NTA. You repeatedly told her your reasons and she continued to push you, and tell you that you were wrong. This has nothing to do with pregnancy hormones. I’m so tired of pregnancy hormones being used as an excuse for women to act however they want with no consideration for anyone else. I’ve been pregnant, and yes hormones can be wild, but she still has ultimate control over her behavior. You were more than patient with her. She chose to continue to engage you in an argument and tell you that your choice was wrong when it wasn’t her business.
This is not hormones from pregnancy it’s her personality. NTA and bless you for being so patient with her relentlessness. Your brother is an A tho for not doing anything here.
NTA.  Hormones are not an excuse to be a disrespectful asshole.  Mothers who think that they can control who their children become are not usually very good mothers.  

She earned the tongue-lashing.  She owes you an apology.
NTA

For your parents: Bother them with some subject over and over again until they explode at you and see if they like it

Your SIL is projecting her insecurities onto you and making a big deal out of it. Not for you to deal with. Anybody would explode after getting asked the same question over and over and over

Also, what authority would she have about you change your name or not? Amazing that your family are enabling her just because she's pregnant
"I don't know, why do you not like being called a Bitch?"
We named the dog "iNdie" 
Lol sorry that's all I can think of.
NTA. You were clear from the beginning. There is no possible answer that is going to help her with this. Some people love their names, others don't. She is obsessed with not making a mistake, but there are not guarantees.
This is just crazy and I wouldn’t have lost my shit too. Asking someone a personal question 25 times isn’t going to change the answer.   Hailey got her answer the first time and should have left at that.  She needs to realize that while OP didn’t like her former name, maybe the baby will like her name and even if she doesn’t, it’s just a name.  It doesn’t change who the person is.  I would have asked Hailey if she loves vintage names so much, why didn’t she change her name to one.
“iT’s ThE hOrMoNeS”

Hormones are not excuse to be an asshole.

NTA
It's your name. Not your parent's name, or her name, your name. As someone who has been pregnant, NTA. We had considered naming my 2-year-old Silas, which is an old fashioned name, and I had a customer come in who had the same name and I asked him a few questions: did he like his name? Did he feel like it suited him? Did he ever get teased? And that was it and every time after I saw him I didn't ask him those questions. I didn't even have any more questions. We ended up choosing something completely different the day he was born, on the flip of a coin. So now he has a wonderful name that he can change if he decides to, but it comes with a pretty cool story.

I have a name that's fairly uncommon here in the US and it's spelled in an uncommon spelling, but it's not a tragediegh spelling. No one can ever read it right, and it's a princess name, so I got teased relentlessly growing up. For a really long time I thought about having my middle name become my legal name. But I changed my mind when I was 19 and I started to love it.

It's not a permanent change. If you decide you want to go back you can, but Indie is a lovely name. And if you feel like that suits you that's all that matters. And no one else has a say in it

A name is the first gift you ever give your child. It's really, really important because you believe that they will carry, that name for the rest of their life. But the thing about gifts is you don't get to dictate what happens to them after you give them away.
Is your SIL having a girl by any chance?
NTA. Hormones are not an excuse for a family member (an in-law no less) to repeatedly and unabashedly breach boundaries. She needs to stop projecting her issues and insecurities for her child onto you (another child)
So you took your Indie-pedence from being Evil-Lyn? You might tell SIL that not all vintage names are alike (just as not all people are).  But you've been patient long enough. (Maybe she wants to name the baby Patience?)

NTA.
Your parents asked why you speak so harshly?

Because the pregnant Sil is an asshole.  She asked a question. Got an answer. Don't like the answer, and kept poking and poking until you snapped.  And you are wrong?  

No being pregnant doesn't mean you have a free pass at being the asshole.
I don't really know if it's the pregnancy, because this sounds very manipulative. she started asking why, then she threw the situation with the baby like she wants to be a good mother... But then she just openly criticise your parents for "letting" you what you want, and telling you, you should go back to your old name cause she basically knowns what's better for you than you and your parents?..

Please don't apologise under any circumstances, otherwise she will start second guessing any decision you'd take and say "just like with your name, you know I'm right".
NTA, your SIL's constant yammering crossed from "hormones" to harassment and abuse. I give you props for not tearing into her much sooner. She owes you an apology as does everyone who didn't intercede when they witnessed her nagging. 
NtA
Pretty sure this was posted a week or so ago with different names because the original name was Lyric and they got shit for wanting to name their kid Lyric…
NTA you’ve asked her to stop and asked your brother to talk to her. You’ve given her your reasons and that’s enough. She doesn’t get a say in what you have as your name. If she is so worried about what she is naming her kid then she should use a different name
It sounds like her child may be in for a challenging relationship with their mother.
NTA

Honestly, I get the impression she wants to use the name “Evelyn” and is skirting around the issue. Hm…
NTA. Has your SIL always been so touchy, or is this a recent thing since the pregnancy? Some women with mental health issues really snowball due to the pregnancy hormones. She should probably be under care of a mental health professional experienced in pregnancy escalation.
NTA. If your brother and parents didn't want this to happen, they should have stopped her from harassing you a long time ago. Particularly since you literally asked your brother to get her to stop. You liking a vintage name isn't going to make her baby love or hate her name. It may make her loving auntie more determined to giver a modern nickname (maybe kidding?)
You should have asked her if she has an obsessive compulsive disorder since she's been obsessing over something that has literally nothing to do with her.  She doesn't have a say in your name or your feelings or why you chose your name.  It's all none of her business and it's really creepy that she's obsessively bringing it up over and over and over.  You are NTA but she sure is!
NTA. I’ve been pregnant twice and never have been this exhausting or annoying.
Ackilinda, Brunhilde, Bertha and Ethel are all  "vintage" girl names. Tell her to try those 😆 


NTA 
Asking someone the same question over and over is bullying. You did your best to respond politely, but after a certain point, you have to stand up to bullies. You can start asking her repeated and instrusive questions about HER name, how much she likes it, what name she’d rather have, etc. and then the same questions about what she thinks of other family members’ names, and refuse to accept her opinions. Keep arguing that surely she cannot really think Abby is more modern than Agatha. Next time you see her, ask her those same questions again about exactly those same people and their names again, to see if she has changed her mind. Argue with her about her opinions. She started this.
NTA because she is not a dementia/alzeheimers patient so she has no excuse to be asking the same thing over and over again.....expecting a different answer.

Sounds like the insanity thing.

No. You are not. She is and her obsession is her own and she needs to leave you alone. Your family sucks.
You tried to be nice.  You tried to be kind.  And even pregnancy doesn't men she gets to repeatedly ask you after you've already told her your answer won't change.  

But...to repeat at least 30 times?  

Sorry, but even pregnant woman, even with hormones acting up, 30 times is 29 times to many.  

You are most definitely NTA.
I’d just walk out the room every time she starts that convo. Just get up without a word and leave. Again and again. Rude behavior deserves disengagement. NTA.
I was thinking the same. Like being anxious would be one thing. But pretty much fighting me over my own name for months is so weird. I know she wants me to change my answer but I won't. I felt the same way for years.
Agreed. Anyone would be annoyed by this line of questioning. And being pregnant does not give you a pass to be rude. NTA

I am changing both my first and last names after my divorce, and I imagine I will get a few people questioning it. But if one of them did it 25 times, I definitely would not have the most polite response to it.
Exactly. OP was extremely patient with her and gave her plenty of grace considering the pregnancy. But everyone has a limit! Her brother should have stepped in a long time ago.
Yeah, imagine a 17yo having to be the more stable, emotionally intelligent person for her 29yo SIL. This is infuriating, and I’m sorry, OP, that you had to be the adult in that situation. NTA
Exactly this ⬆️ 

This woman’s behavior seems less pregnancy hormones and more a matter of an obsessive compulsive disorder. She wasn’t shutting it down on her own even after 25 discussions and she was unlikely to stop until her child was old enough to tell her she loves or hates her name or OP gave up and changed her name back, or both.

Tell brother dearest and your parents if he didn’t like your method of shutting it down he should have done it himself when first asked. I hope her next obsession when it crops up won’t be centered around you.
NTA. I hate my legal name, but my parents would have been very hurt had I changed it (my mom would cry at the least hint of criticism).

Once they were both gone, it seemed kind of pointless since I was in my late 50s at that point…and everyone knows to call me by my nick. I only have to tell people once not to call me Damn_it_all_to_Hell. But it still is a pain in the butt to have to say that.
NTA. 

She's insufferable. And has no idea about boundaries. I'm sure it's not gonna be easy for the child coming into the world to this family.
Exactly NTA you told her why you hate the name Evelyn 25 times on the 26th time you were done.
Well, when they start with the (pregnancy) hormones, OP can retaliate with period hormones, (late) puberty hormones.  Pregnancy hormones may be real, but they are not sacred. Neither other hormones.
> " you must understand it's the pregnancy hormones "

The pregnancy hormones give me a free pass to break down ugly crying in the bread aisle of the grocery store because Don't Take the Girl (old Tim McGraw song) randomly came on.  Not to harass people.
At this point I'd just grey rock her. No emotion, no eye contact, give short answers.

Her: Why don't you like the name Evelyn.

You: I just don't like it. (Monotone)

Her: But why?

You: I just don't like it. (Monotone)

Her: But there has to be a reason you don't like it. 

You: I just don't like it. (Monotone)

Her: But it's such a pretty vintage name.

You: I just don't like it. (Monotone)

Every question she asks, just answer the same way every time.
I agree! Pregnancy hormones are no joke, but that doesn’t mean you hold the woman accountable. Maybe give her grace after the first instance but to be hounded repeatedly is insane
If they had had to go through the same thing for months, maybe they wouldn’t have thought it too harsh. How annoying! As for her parenting, she *will* make mistakes no matter what she tries, so she should make peace with that.
I hate when bad behavior is excused due to pregnancy hormones...please...
Yeah this isn't hormones, this is harassment. SIL needs to get herself under control or just stop interacting with OP if she can't let this go.
I never met a pregnant woman who's hormones didn't let her understand the word "no" anymore. OP asked her stop so many times it's ridiculous. At this point it's obvious the SIL doesn't respect other people if they don't agree with her, OP was nice to her about it long enough.


And for her baby... it could go either way. You can give them a modern name and they'll hate it and want to be "Charlotte", or you give them a vintage name and they hate it and want to be "Indie". Doesn't mean you made a mistake (unless you actually chose a cruel/ stupid name like "Milk" or a tradgedeigh or used them to hurt somone else etc. I think any name is fine.)


A great parent doesn't take it as a personal jab against themselves and let's the kid change their name if it they really want to. 



What if Charlotte wants to be Charles one day? Not exactly the same thing, but similar enough... would the sister cry that the child is choosing a different name that the one they choose or deny them the change?
FFS, I wish people would stop with the pregnancy excuse already. I’ve completed nine pregnancies, and not once have I done something like this. Pregnancy hormones may be an excuse as to why I cried at a commercial or music video, but it’s not an excuse to be a goddamn asshole to people. We still have our brains, for Chrissakes.
Really in the realm of what’s going to happen with your kid in the future changing your name should be the least of your worries. 

I’d be worried I might give birth to a serial killer or something
Can we stop using pregnancy as an excuse to be an asshole? This woman is nuts, hormones or no. She is low-key emotionally abusing OP and now playing victim.Yes, I have 4 children and I know how it feels to be pregnant.
I don't get it either. She should be able to see clearly that she likes vintage names so it's 50/50 whether the baby will when they get older. Nobody knows. But it's not going to change anything by asking me over and over again.
My guess is anxiety, which means she’s at risk for postpartum mental health issues.  She really needs to stop harping on OP and start taking to her doctor. 
She wants to justify her choice, and op isn't playing ball. Sil is insane by definition, repeatedly doing the same thing, expecting a different response. I feel like the parents are also on board with sil harassing op since they named her.
Shes probably trying to make herself feel better, about choosing a vintage name, for her child. If she can get OP to change her mind about her own vintage name, then maybe in the future, if her child dislikes her name, she can do the same, for her own child.
Thank you for calling it out as bullying. That is exactly what it was!
If I'm being honest, I probably would have put down whatever I was doing and walked out without answering after the 5th time. It is so genuinely rude and self-centered when people refused to actually listen to what you're saying.
lol OP!! “Are we there yet? Are we there yet? Are we..” that might get the point across
My parents know. They were present every time she asked me.
Lol imagine how much she is annoying the brother! She is fixated on OP's name, I bet there is a looong list of things she is pestering her husband about.
OP put it to your brother and parents this way. Take the "vintage vs modern name debate" out of the equation and ask them if they would find her behaviour acceptable. She has

1 refused to accept your initial answer

2 harassed you for months

3 disrespected your identity 

And if you really want to get your family thinking

4 disrespected the way your parents have raised you, to be independent and true to yourself and your identity 

To your brother

5 would he allow his wife to bully and manipulate his child if she decides that her child is a doll and not a human with an independent identity and bodily autonomy.
Agreed. Also, it is okay to like or dislike names. Some people like more old fashioned names and some more modern names. Both are totally fine. Luckily we can change our own names when we are old enough and don’t like them or to match our personalities better. 

What is not fine (is never fine) is bullying someone until they can’t take it anymore.
exactly this. definitely NTA
And now imagine what she'll be like as a parent when her kid doesn't like something, shudder...
Oof, just wait for when the baby can talk and asks "why? Why? Why? Why? But why? Why? Whyyyy?" Is SIL going to throw a display of hysterics until the child learns that being quiet keeps mummy sane?
This! Pregnancy can make you weird and emotional about some things but it absolutely isn't an excuse for being this rude and obnoxious. Hard NTA
Thank you for saying this. It really gets on my nerves when people blame pregnancy hormones for bad behaviour. 

SIL is just a bully, who continues to berate people who don’t fit her narrative. Pregnancy has nothing to do with it.
I think it's the hormones because my aunt was very anxious like that too when pregnant.

But the family wouldn’t let her deal with alone by bullying teenagers! Like wtf?!

Sure, she's at fault. But the husband and in laws just let her tortured herself knowing it wasn't normal
I get you so much!! Plus you still need to use your legal name sometimes. I had my nickname down in places and would still get called by my legal name at times. When you hate or really dislike your name it's such an annoyance.
Yeah, while I'm on OP's side here, I don't argue with teenagers as an adult. Even when I was parenting them, getting into spats with teenagers was a losing game. Not her kid. Not her problem.
This comment had me rolling!
A friend of mine named her kid Indiana and we all call him Indy and he’s doing just fine!

The ironic thing here is that SIL is so worried about bulling over a name and she is the actual bully in this situation.
Exactly my thoughts!! This mom is in for a rude awakening. OP is NTA
That's why I'm so glad my parents agreed to let me change it. Meant way less paperwork and issues!
well it doesn't seem like other stuff is wrong so messing family time with such stuff sucks when there is nothing more serious going on . she will still see her parents and it didn't sound like she hates her brother so this conflict is just messy
Exactly! Sometimes it's best to keep some distance and not invest too much energy in relationships that drain you.
I was thinking the same by the third time there would have been drama, OP your a saint to put up with it that long. Your brother is the AH, once you told him it was a problem it’s his job to handle it. Since he didn’t, you solved the problem. She has no one to blame so the crying and guilt it on her and it’s not bc hormones she’s a shitty person. OP you did nothing wrong.
Yeah my anger issues wouldn’t have let it this get so far. It would have been “AITH for punching a pregnant woman who kept deadnaming me “
I'm really sorry you had to keep the gendered name you didn't want. It really shouldn't take as long as it did but I'm so happy you're free from it!
I mean......it's a pretty damn good name 🤷.
I personally think everyone should get 1 free name change. So many people are stuck with names they hate or hold trauma.
Nice Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade" reference! LOL!!
*Sean Connery's voice* (RIP)

*I named the dog Indiana*

Lol
I was thinking the same thing!
Nope. I'm not named after a dog.
She is.
She's projecting - she wants her unborn child to love the vintage name, you hated yours, and somehow in her brain, convincing you to suddenly love your old name would ensure her child to love theirs too. Which is madness. Her child will be a unique individual with their own likes and dislikes, just like she is and you are. 
Hopefully she will come to realise she can't just make people be a certain way to match her aesthetic.
"A name is a gift given by your parents,  and like any other gifts, you don't have to keep it forever" 




I don't use my given name,  but a nickname,  very few people even KNOW my given name.  My partner introduces me to everyone by my nickname,  it's not that deep.
Also, this bit is important:

> She also said she'd like me to rethink my name because she thought Evelyn was beautiful and she was sad I had chosen something like Indie over it.

She's saying that YOU have made a mistake. She says it several times.

This isn't just "help me understand your reasons, because I'm concerned my daugther will feel the same way."

This is "you're wrong and I need you to see that."

25 fucking times.

Explain that to anyone who bugs you about it. Show them this thread if you need to.

NTA
She wants to know what your parents did wrong so she can avoid it. She can't accept that they did nothing wrong. They gave you a name they liked that you didn't but they couldn't have known that. 

There is nothing wrong with the name Evelyn but it's not to everybody's taste. 

There is no reassurance that her child will keep the name she gives them. Traditional or contemporary.
Plot twist: She really wants to call her child Indie, the minute you change it she will nab it :)

  
And your Dad needs a severe talking to for not repeatedly saying "Indie was the dog's name, Junior." Whenever it is brought up  (Indiana Jones reference).
Dearest Indy, I can so relate to you. Not in terms of hating my name but on wanting to carve out your own future and identity unapologetically. 

I just have one comment ... The one about how 30yo Indy might be happy being called Evelyn since it's a more adult name.

I'm 45 and spend every birthday reflecting on all the things I've learned in the past year and cherish how much wiser I have become. I like growing older and I stand by my age (when I can remember it ...) and give zero fucks about what the world thinks 45 should look and act like. I'm CF so I can do whatever the hell I want and I LOVE IT! 

But that's the thing. There's room between "acting your age" and the pathetic "young with the youngsters" way of aging. To me, names that sounded old fashioned and "not me" 30 years ago STILL feel that way! I don't feel middleaged though I know I have probably lived more than half my life now. The only thing I've grown into is more me, solidifying my personality and identity and giving less and less fucks what others think.

There's PLENTY of space for a 30yo Indy! Also a 45yo one and a 60yo Indy. 

You've handled this with a lot of patience, honestly. She's being outright rude and wanting to have you conform simply to make her feel better. She's being the immature one. At the very least it SHOULD be possible to simply agree to not talk about this anymore. You're still a kid and someone should have stepped in to protect your right to exist in your own home since you haven't yet gotten to the point in life where you can simply ask her to GTFO. That's the best part of getting your own place, just saying. 

  
I have an uncle who was the same way about why I didn't have/wanted a boyfriend. And in the end I fucked around with his head so much it's still spinning. A friend and I had SO much fun giving off relationship vibes but not saying anything and he had such a hard time not knowing if I was gay and in a relationship with her or if we were just friends. Every time he thought he had the answer, we did something to make him question it. Yeah, it was kinda mean but that's what you get for not minding your business! 

NTA
If your parents think you were harsh, put together all the screen shots of her asking you about it, and all the times at family events she approached you about it. Ask them if "hormones" are an acceptable reason for bullying? A pregnant person can still be an AH, hormones or not. 

You are NTA. You chose your name, and it's none of her business.
But also she isn’t about to give birth to you - she’s about to give birth to a baby who will be a totally different person to you, and will have some different opinions to her/his mother, and how to live her/his life. NTA
NTA. Don’t ask questions if you don’t want the answer. Pregnant or not SIL is TA. And her baby Hilda, Birtha, Ethyl, Gertrude, Agnes may need your help one day…
Tel, parents and brother that they KNEW she was as,img you repeatedly the same questions over and over again and yet they DIDNT even attempt to stop her, tel, parents that they have known FOR YEARS you hated the name they gave you and that you were changing it so when SIL first started her nonsense THEY as your parents should have shut her down.. tell brother that you asked him to tell HIS WIFE to back off and drop the subject but HE DIDNT.. then tell them that pregnancy is NOT an excuse for unreasonable behaviour and that it's not like you snapped at her months ago when she forst started her nonsense..and tell them that her crying is on her and them as much as it is you. THEY COULD and SHOULD have told her to drop it months ago and them all blaming you for her crying after being snapped at after months of her bugging you every chance she got is firmly on her.. that if giving her child an old fashioned name is causing her to behave this way then she best choose a more modern name u less she wants to deal with her kid changing it's name the second its able to
I've been pregnant and I didn't harass people over their life choices because of my "hormones". She's just a dick. NTA at all.
Welcome to the club, Indie!
It's not like you couldn't have had a modern nickname, but im guessing you didn't like the variations of your short form either. So you changed it nothing wrong with that.
I have three kids.  I agonized forever about the names I gave them. 

Two of the three have decided they don’t like the names I gave them.  Eldest was 18 when that happened and youngest was 12.  

You know what I did?  I let them go by their preferred names.  It’s on them to legalize it but I can’t hold them to something that they didn’t  pick and don’t want.
NTA being pregnant an sometimes made you act a little strange. But being being pregnant doesn’t justify a person acting like that kid from “are we there yet.”
Can I guess by your parent’s reaction that they have either subtly or outright asked/influenced SIL to needle you about it hoping you’d change it back? You are NTA.
It’s incredibly weird that she became so fixated on getting a specific reason from you that had to align with her naming criteria. Also, your parents should have been pissed at her as she’s been implying that they did something wrong that led to you not liking the name, when sometimes a name just doesn’t work.

You could always just call her Steve for a day, and then at the end ask her why exactly she hates the name Steve and would prefer Hailey. Sometimes a healthy dose of whatever shit they’re giving to others can help someone leave you alone.
She needs mental help and eventually so will her kid.
My 18 year old daughter is an Evelyn. She has never complained about her name. I’m just throwing out an anecdote that she may not have this problem with her kid. Maybe hearing there are teens out there who don’t hate such names would help calm her?
See how anxious she is about the name? That is the level of anxious she will be about the baby. Get ready for a rocky ride once the baby is born.
NTA

Also, I totally feel like names are something we should think of as something we loan the children in our lives until they are ready to choose for themselves.  

They may love the one we chose for them, they may love a nickname, or they may want something brand new. 

No matter what, a name is an individual's choice when it comes down to it.  And that's ok. 

I never bothered to change my name legally, but I've gone by a nickname since I started talking and couldn't pronounce my real name, lol. It stuck. 

Indie is beautiful.
NTA clearly she wasn’t hearing you when you responded multiple times before. Now (hopefully) she did. She sounds a bit unstable tbh.
Alternatively, Eve, Lyn, sound nice too as a nickname to me.  But it is your name, you can legally change it, and it not crazy or offensive. NTA, I would have snapped much earler. I propose next time she asks you three times the same question  make a card with your answer and a ❤️and show it to her.
In the future, plainly say, "My answer remains the same" when someone repeats a question the third, fourth, etc. time. Do not elaborate. Do not say anything at all beyond that one phrase. It takes some willpower the first few times you do that, and then it gets easier and people learn their lessons around you. NTA.
It’s a good time to do it, because it’s a free name change during a divorce. Good idea!
I wish that was possible in my country! 

Agree, OP‘s absolutely justified in snapping after answering politely so many times. SIL could’ve just found a more modern middle name for the baby by now.
Exactly.  Hope her husband realizes soon this is not normal, and to keep an eye out for further obsessive behavior.
She's probably worried the kid won't like Agatha Mildred... Her behavior is inexusably rude.
Something tells me she wouldn't handle it well if her daughter came to her wanting to change her name...
There’s also no saying what names will be considered “vintage” or “modern” in 17 years. So it’s like. Who cares. I have a traditional name that doesn’t super feel like me, and I don’t lose sleep over it. It’s an identifier.

Plus, Indie might come from Indira which is an ancient name used throughout history. Is that not vintage enough?
NTA  my guess is she was planning on using your middle name, and now she can't and wants you to change your name so that she can use it.  As to her behavior, have you talked to her husband and expressed concern for her mental health, this seems like the build up to upcoming severe PPA
Is there something actually wrong with her? I mean medically. It seems... really weird, to repeat the same thing over and over obsessively, so weird in fact that I would be worried. Are there any other signs of... something?
Is it possible she wants to make her baby Evelyn or Evie and she’s worried you are going to change your name back?
It’s always 50/50 if your kid likes their name when they grow up, regardless of it being “vintage”, “normal” or “unique”.

Some love their name, some never really think about it and others hate it.

It’s the first “gamble” parents make. 🤷🏻‍♀️
She's INCREDIBLY insecure about the name she's picked. Like insanely insecure. She's taking it out on you and projecting all of it.

Your parents and brother need a coming to Jesus moment, since you explained the answer more than once, and it didn't change. You HAD to escalate. They need to take responsibility for not only being pissed at you for no reason, but also because they didn't do enough to stop this bullying.

Seriously, I'd be marching all four of them in this thread for a good dressing down. NTA your parents and bro&sis need to grow up.
It sounds as if something is wrong with your SIL. Instead of only being rightfully upset, you should also start talking seriously to your brother and SIL about this extreme compulsive behavior. She may have an undiagnosed mental illness that needs treatment.
This is a good line to use with the brother.  Privately expressing her deep concern over SILs mental health. Ask if she is seeing a psychiatrist for her OCD behavior.
My mother is a conservative "Christian" who is a massive bigot. I married a Jewish man who was the son of lesbians who is wildly successful. It literally broke her brain that he could be a well adjusted individual and not have a father.

For fucking years she would constantly ask him "Don't you feel like you missed out on having a dad?" The answer was always no. I would shut it down everytime I heard it, so she would ask him behind my back. Still, no. The answer would always be no. It's like it just would not get through to her thick skull.

The irony being her father abandoned her family when she was 9 and my father was absent most of my childhood.
5th? you are more patient than I. 

"We have already had this conversation twice, I am done with it"
They should have shut her down the very moment she started her drama.. they could have told her that they have had this conversations hundreds of times woth you over the years but you refuse to change your mind.. it would have hopefully stopped her in her tracks hopefully
Seriously though, you should tell your brother that since he refused to handle it like you asked and your SIL won’t listen when you’re respectful about it you were left with no choice. If he doesn’t like the way you handled it then he should have taken care of it when you gave him the chance.
Text your parents and brother (since people can get defensive and react without listening sometimes). 

“I’m sorry that SIL reacted poorly to me defending myself. However, you need to understand that I have become increasingly upset and frustrated with the relentless harassment over my name that has gone on for months. 

I’ve talked to you all about this multiple times and asked her repeatedly to stop. And you have done nothing to help me. How would you feel if you had to constantly defend your name every time you spoke to someone. This is not normal and pregnancy is no excuse for harassment. Crying and playing victim, does not make SIL’s weird, obsessive behavior okay. 

She owes me an apology.  Not the other way around.”
Asking 25 times is so far beyond the bounds of normal curiosity that I genuinely think there’s something else going on. Was she an anxious or obsessive person before getting pregnant? Not letting something go, to this extent, reads like an unhealthy hyper fixation tied to anxiety or intrusive thoughts.
This doubles what I said, the four of them suck ass and didn't give a shit enough to stop this.

Tch, makes me wonder how much resentment they aren't fessing up about over your name change.
Info: You wrote your parents “gave in” to your name change. Is it possible they haven’t spoken up when your SIL questioned you because they secretly agree with her/are disappointed in your actions? After all, they’re the ones who picked your name 17 years ago, so they must have had some reason for liking it. Maybe they empathize with Hailey. After all, you’ve put them in the position of having the name they chose be rejected, perhaps they don’t want to see Hailey go through the same thing 17 years from now.
Then why aren't they sticking up for your decision? They should have shut her down ages ago.
Honestly she's going to be a trash mother if she feels the need to control every aspect of her kid and is *already* endlessly harping on everyone having to agree with her vision because this child who hasn't even been born yet must adhere to all expectations.

What if this kid is severely disabled or has autism? What if they turn out to be trans? What if they grow up to have different politics or a different religion than you? 

Congrats & welcome to being a parent. It turns out your progeny are individual humans who get to sculpt their own lives and you don't get to dictate everything for them.

I'm really sick of everybody making the pregnancy excuse for this woman because this is so far beyond that. I'm disabled, and I don't use my disability as an excuse to behave poorly. It would be infantilizing to me to do so anyway. I am still an adult who can act right and so is this pregnant lady. 

She needs to get over trying to control her kids' future really quickly or she will end up with a bad relationship with her child

NTA
This needs to be upvoted more. The SIL wants a vintage name for her child and is horrified over the thought of their kid potentially hating and changing theirs later. She can't accept that her child is going to be an individual person and not a doll. So she's been projecting that fear onto op and harassing op for months trying to either convince op to like her vintage name or give her a "reason" SIL thinks makes sense that she can "fix".

This breaks it down perfectly as to its not just over a name and how disrespectful and frustrating SIL's behavior is. If SIL wasn't listening, then ops brother should have stopped this if he didn't want OP finally having had enough.

OP, NTA. Names are gifts and like any gift its yours to do with as you see fit.
If she asks again, reply with your own questions

What have I done to make you repeatedly harass me?

Do you really hate me so much?

What did I do to deserve being treated so terribly?

Am I really that awful of a person that my feelings don't count?


Bonus points if you can cry
Just to add, OP, you might consider asking them (particularly your brother) exactly what was done to stop your SIL’s harassment of you. 

Being tolerant of your SIL and understanding that she has some issues is one thing. But that doesn’t give your SIL free rein and that she & others bear no accountability for her actions. 

Has your brother talked to her and asked her to stop this line of questioning with you? Have your parents done the same? When she started up, did anyone try to intercede and stop her? Is your SIL even in therapy? 

If the adults in your life knew and did nothing to stop the harassment - that’s a problem. They failed you.
This. SIL can't even accept OP is an autonomous person with different preferences, and that doesn't bode well for the future kid.
All very good points! OP should also ask her brother to consider if this is the way he wants his child to be treated.

If she’s reacting like this to just the possibility that their child may not like their name or might want to change it, imagine how much worse she will be if she doesn’t agree with other big decisions their child makes in life. What if she doesn’t like their career or study choices, who they want to date/marry or their chosen sexual or gender identity.
Wish I could vote more than once. They should be looking at her behavior, which is what lead to your breaking point.
This is the kind of mother that calls the principal because the teacher won't stop the other kids from calling Alexander/Alexandra/etc Alex....
We can even change them multiple times! I went by a nickname from the time I was old enough to express that I didn't like my name, then legally changed my entire name as an adult because I never liked my surname either because it tied me to my father and brother (and also because a stalker knew my chosen name and it wouldn't be hard to find me if I kept the same surname)

And if I ever get married and take my partner's surname, I'll change again! You don't need some big dramatic reasons like I had, even, you can just change it!
This. When you're little, your parents have to pick out your name, your food, your clothes, and everything else. Because not only do you not have the ability to say what you want, you also don't have the experience to know what options are out there. As you grow up, you start developing independence of taste, and gradually learning to identify the things you like as separate from what your parents like - food, music, clothes, subjects at school, romantic partners, careers...it all builds up. 

And name is one of the most fundamental parts of your personhood. It's actually surprising that more of us don't discover a mismatch between the idea our parents had of us when we were still unformed, and who we become by the time we're adults! (My mum discovered recently that her mother nearly gave her a flower name, and that's caused an interesting confusion in her, because on the one hand it's more interesting than she thinks hers is, but on the other, she's really not a stereotypically girly woman, and I cannot imagine her not chafing under the more highly gendered expectations of that name.)
Right - she'll pop out that kid, and continue acting the same way even after the kid grows up. What will be her excuse then?
Exactly!!! Why put up with it for someone’s else’s benefit!
Lol the irony is damning
Brilliant 🤣
Thank you <3

I'm extremely happy I got rid of the birth name.
The gendered names I'll see... we have a new law that o
nly applies in November and I might need to sue in order to get rid of the names. But I won't be the only one and I'm okay with potentially sueing.
At least those are names I chose myself, so it's not too bad (like the birth name was), it's just not fitting my identity.


Anyways... hope you won't be harrassed about the topic anymore. Fingers crossed :)
That’s not a bad idea. Not every kid wants to grow up named after their parents’ favorite RPG character.
Agree . It possible will take a while with the bearocracy I mean even when you get married and get a new name you kind of need to prove that your Certifications and all Documents also have your new name . It should be easier and faster with digitalistation .You would get your driver license in few minutes instead of few weeks . Name change should become easier when you have all your documents in your online wallet
They're referencing Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade.
In "Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade" film, it transpires that Indiana's actual name is Henry Jones Junior. 
When someone asks why is he known as Indi/Indiana, his father says it was the dog's name and his friends says "You're named after the dog?!". 
That is what the previous poster was referring to. 

I actually like both names, so if you are happy and your parents are OK, no-one else's business! 
One of my children has a name that we all loved, a few years later the same name was used by a nasty character in a TV series and we all went off it... there are no guarantees anyone will like any name!
I’m pretty sure anyone who wants to call themselves Indie is legally required to watch all of the Indiana Jones movies first
This, and compulsively too. A fixation. I’m sorry you had to deal with her MH issues OP, you’re not the AH but the people surrounding you are for not supporting both you and SIL in what is clearly a fixation for her. Boundaries can be helpful here.
I've had a friend who projected like crazy; She just started a new diet (only eating once a day or something like that) and told me that it would improve my life as well. The thing is, I listened to her talking about how it helped her and the generally reported benefits, but I told her, that it wasn't for me (I've later even got told by my doctor that for my stomach I shouldn't do that). My friend took this as a personal attack that I disagreed with her and her lifestyle! She got really nasty about it. Because in her mind, if everybody doesn't agree with her way of living, it means her life is wrong. 

So I can see that reaction in OP's SIL. It's not rational, and it's not (meant) personally, it's just this deep fear of not living life "right". Luckily for me, I let that friendship go, but being family, this sounds like a deeper problem SIL has to address (and everyone else has to stop enabling her)
Some people get really weird over name changes. I also legally changed my name at 16 because I hated my old name. I suddenly had people I’d never had a conversation with approaching me and wanting to know “why”. 

15 years later and it’s still one of the best decisions I ever made.
Exactly! She’s trying to force her own preferences on others to validate her choices, but everyone’s different. Her child will have their own personality, and you can’t make someone love a name just by projecting your own desires onto them.
She's terrified that her unborn child will have their own likes and dislikes, will have their own autonomy. If OP could change her name, why, then so could her sweet little angel!
Kids are people not extensions of ourselves. We don't get to make decisions for them about what they like. Seems like SIL is having a bad time with that reality being shoved in her face.

I made peace with my son maybe one day liking the nickname of his name that I hate. Though no one in the family uses it because we established early on we weren't (they have given him other nicknames). If he wants to use it as a teen or adult, that's out of my hands. He isn't me. He's his own person.
Yeah, OP's feelings about her own name are completely valid, and also have absolutely nothing to do with how her nibling may or may not someday feel about their own name. 

Maybe they'll actually love having a vintage name! Maybe they won't. Can't really know one way or the other until they're old enough to have an opinion, so it really is a silly thing to be fretting about. I know pregnancy hormones probably are contributing, but there are ways to gently and tactfully tell someone that they're worrying too much and being rude to other people in the process.
25 times of trying to change your mind is not a case of pregnancy hormones. she was using her pregnancy to be a total asshole.

indie, you are not an asshole. your sil, bro, and parents are, but not you.

not only that, i love your chosen name more than the one you were given as indie suits you. you are kind and strong and will speak your mind and hold your ground when you are pushed to a ridiculous point. i's have like laid down the ms. waldenwould law long before you did. i'd have been an asshole because i'd have said it's not up for discussion around the fifth time. if pushed beyond that, i'd have been an asshole.

indie will suit you for the whole of your life. your given name would not. there is a difference between the two and you chose wisely.

you don't owe anyone an apology.

tell them 25 times is not a case of pregnancy hormones because it isn't. they may not know the full of what the sil has done. if they still defend her, oh well. they are double assholes each and all.

you will make a wonderful aunt, i know you will love that baby whatever it's name.

best wishes to you, indie. enjoy your life and your chosen name.
Yeah, and ultimately it doesn’t matter at all. Plenty of people are named Evelyn and like the name and keep it their whole lives. She’s nuts and it ain’t just the hormones.
100% agree with Final_Figure that this is projection and i would feel comfortable saying the OPs Brother and sister in law are going to create a self-fulfilling prophecy. They probably use OPs vintage name at home when she is not around and will do so in front of their child which will cause the child to some day ask OP why she changed her name and then consider that as an option for themself. When then parents then get upset and push back hard on this idea, the child could grow to hate their own name🤷🏻‍♂️.
So name go on cycles.
Parents (own)generation names are so-so, most famous and cool people are that generation but so are most arseholes and weirdos.
Nobody wants to call thier kids grandma's name, but because many the great-grandmas are dead, those names seem unique.

Of course there's no fixed crossover It's that name that seemed great grandma-ish to your parents  but turned out to be grandma-ish, which prob why you hate it.

So tell you here you hate it because it WAS an old person's name for you, it will be and CLASSIC (dead persons) name for thier child.
This isn't rational at all. The overwhelming majority of people don't change their name, because by the time they are old enough to do so, it's part of their identity. Even if they don't love it, they just go by a nickname and don't think about it.
It happens I don’t like my name and people tend to always say how lovely it is. How they know x with the name etc. I personally hate it. Majority of my family and friends use various nicknames to address me and because of my nephews I have a nickname because my name is too hard for little kids to say (yeah that sucked when I was little btw). The only consolation is my mum’s other choices were worse so I do thank dad he said no to those. Anyways I love my middle names and if I could go back and insist on being one of those I would be. However it got to a point that I am my name and well I have made my peace with it. My mum is sad I don’t like my name but she doesn’t like hers either so she gets it. It’s a gamble doesn’t mean I don’t absolutely love and adore my parents, doesn’t mean I don’t embrace what my name is and doesn’t mean I don’t graciously accept the compliments. I just have accepted that I might give any future kids I have a name they might not like. Oh dear oh well.
She also probably doesn’t want OP’s name change to be an example that her child eventually follows.
This is what I was thinking. It doesn’t matter what OP's name and naming preferences are. The baby is not OP! They might grow up to adore vintage names and their name in particular. They might end up being neutral about it. There is no way to know.
She wants to make sure her daughter will love the name. But forgets that she can't influence how someone else reacts to a name. The unborn baby might like the name or might feel like a Evie later. The sil has to accept that she can't influence that.

NTA for snapping at her after answering over 25 times the same question. I'd have snapped at 3. 
Some pregnant women get very "interesting" while choosing names. A acquaintance asked for name suggestions and declined each of them, because her kid could be made fun of... Now the kid is named after an  adjective.
I have not been called my legal name by anyone but new doctors/court proceedings for almost 20 years. 

I picked a new name. My brother picked a new name. My eldest child does not go by the name I picked for them.

People make a biiiiiigggg deal about other people's names and I just do not get it.
Same. I’ve gone by a nickname for decades but never bothered to legally change it and a bunch of my friends found out it wasn’t my legal name during my wedding vows
I knew a guy in high school with only an initial for his middle name. His parents told him at 18 to choose his new name. He went by his middle name after that. His siblings did the same thing. 

When I named my kids I gave them names with multiple nicknames and let them choose what they preferred to be called and how they spelled their nickname.
Only mum uses my given name. I hate it so much. Everyone else uses my preferred name.
💯
this was my first thought too. normal people don't behave like this unless there's an ulterior motive.
“We named the dog Indiana!”
I was thinking exactly the same thing about the sister wanting to use OPs new name. It’s the only reason to me that makes sense
I don't think SIL asked every time via text but in person. It would be difficult to give proof for all the times she asked. Especially if OP made her cry in front of the family, that goes to show that it was in person at least then.
I think that’s exactly what’s at the root of the SIL’s freakout. Most people harbor fantasies about how their kid will behave and what they’ll like. And those fantasies almost always involve the kid being exactly what mom or dad wants. SIL is watching one of those fantasies get destroyed right before her eyes. 

Yes she’s hormonal and probably scared and her fantasies about her perfect relationship with her child was a crutch she could lean on, so OP being an actual individual right in front of her is making her act like an irrational AH. I can see that it’s fear driven, but that’s not OP’s problem and her brother should have sat his wife down and told her to drop it when OP asked him to.
If the baby has such an overbearing mother like this who can't get over someone not liking their name and changing it, then I wouldn't be surprised if the child grows up resenting their name as well and might want to change their name in the future. The SIL is making too much of a big deal of the name, and it wouldn't shock me if the mother badgers their child about their name until the child, maybe, becomes resentful. This SIL sounds so insufferable.
Yes, this. All of these people who now berate OP for not handling it the way they supposedly would have, they all had plenty of chances to help pull SIL off OP, to try to stop the harassment. And yet they did not.
Why do I have the feeling that SIL wants to name her child something like Euphemia, Gertrude, or Boadicea, and she's desperately seeking validation.
I don't think this is influenced by them. I think they just feel like I need to be more sensitive because she's pregnant. But I also think she has this weird idea that me changing my mind somehow influences things with her daughter. Maybe. I don't know. It's all so weird.
LOL Agatha is the name I picked for this vintage tale too. But Mildred is the perfect middle!
Lol I recently met a baby named Agatha, those names seem to be making a comeback. I pretended it was cute to the parents' faces but in my head I was going "Agatha? Really? Alrighty then..."
It was Agatha all along!
Idk I like Milly, Aggie is a bit too old sounding though lol agreed on her behavior.
Yeah, I get the same vibe.
Omg yeah.. Poor unborn child
Fr man, something tells me she doesn’t handle well when a stranger orders food she doesn’t like at a restaurant
Evelyn would be more like a name she'd want to use. I don't think my middle name would have been a name she'd have chosen. Like at all. It's very different to the names she likes.
As someone who has done the whole pregnancy schtick, believe me when I say that while it should not be leaned on as an *excuse* pregnancy hormones can get ***wild***. 

Honestly? It sounds to me like SIL just has an insecurity nagging at them that they can't shake. A likely potential is that she's picked an older name she really loves for the baby, but OP's name change has given her a bit of doubt to chew on and she's scared the kiddo is going to resent her for it.

You know the phrase "making a mountain out of a molehill"? For some women that practically becomes a default state during pregnancy. Bonus points if they had any anxiety going into it.

Don't get me wrong though this would have driven me absolutely batty, I'd have snapped too when SIL started repeatedly (accidentally) insulting OP and calling her parents' parenting into question. A few moments of hurt feelings is a small price to pay for reminding this grown-ass woman she was getting quite rude.
Oh but would she allow the cute modern nickname if she's so hung up on the "classic?"
Yep! Most of my friends never think about it, two love theirs and one also hated their name but would never change it because of the trouble it would bring (named after a family member).
My guess is that the parents are unhappy with the name change, so they were more than happy to have an "ally" pushing their issue without backlash for them.
OP should also do a voice recording of this for when SIL starts up again - just play it. Someone complains tell them you’re tired of repeating the same thing over 25 times because SIL doesn’t respect you.
Tbh it's not a sorry moment.


"I'm sad that my peace was trampled for so many month without any of you lifting as much of a finger to stop SIL from bullying me for my choices. I will stand up for myself as much as I need for as long as the harassment continues, undeterred by manipulation tactics like crying foul, figuratively or not." 
I never knew her to be like this before. She never commented this much when my name change actually happened.
Oh yeah, they don't like my new name. They just accepted that I was going to be Indie at some point and I would never grow to like or be okay with keeping Evelyn.
Thats what I got too. She was projecting hard and imagining her kid was OP by arguing with her to rethink her name, just like she would if her future baby turned out to not like their name
OP's brother is obviously spineless, controlling people generally have a type.
OOOH I love this last line.
This is an excellent way to get people who are bullies to back off. It’s push back, but it’s also done in a way that calmly draws attention to the bulling. I used to do this with my dad who would constantly “make little jokes” about me. They weren’t jokes, nor were they funny. He was being a bully, and who throw a chuckle in to make it appear like I didn’t get it. I started asking him to, “Explain that joke to me. I want to get why it’s funny.” “Jokes” have now stopped.
While I love this energy, my experience has been that these kinds of questions legitimize the bully for whatever reason and cause ME to be labeled as the problem. 

Being blunt and laying down boundaries has been more successful for me: 

“We’ve talked about x many times before. I told you last time that I will not engage in this discussion, but since you can not respect our difference of opinion, I will be leaving/going to talk to someone else.” This sets the record straight with any onlookers, and usually I’m allowed to leave or change seats without being seen as the difficult or dramatic one. 

Also why is no one else in your family helping you out? OP, can you ask your parents or other family members to back you up? My siblings and I have gotten good at doing this service for one another, esp since we have many boundary pushing relatives.
Or OP can say that she apologize for not realizing that SIL is asking her blessing to name the baby Evelyn. Tell SIL that her parents would love it, then share the news to everyone. 

If OP is feeling petty she can start calling SIL and the baby Evelyn. If she asks why you're calling her Evelyn, just say that you thought she loved the name and wanted to change her name to that. Gaslight her by saying that you totally support her decision to change her name.
In my country (the Netherlands) it is not that easy to change a name. You have to go to a judge and let them know (and prove) you are already going for a while by that name (for first and last names). You have to plea your case and then they might change it. But it is expensive. As in 800-1200 euros expensive. So I know more people who go by a nickname than their official legal name instead of changing everything. 

Because it the Netherlands it is also custom to give your child a legal name and then give them an official name to call them. Like a lot of men are officially named Johannes but their parents also gave them the name of call Hans, Johan, Hannes or John or something like that. And I know women named Geertruida who go by Trudy. This was done mostly a few generations ago but still happens.
Exactly. I am a mother myself and I had to choose a name for a person I have never met. In the Netherlands, where I am from, you have 3 work days to register your baby and the full name. If you don’t they might choose one for you and you’ll get fined anyway.  

So I chose a name I think is beautiful. But if my children will one day want another name they like better then that would be fine with me. I don’t see it as an insult. They have to be sure (because changing is difficult here so I want them to be happy and not feel remorse in a year). And if they tell me they want me to call them something else (without changing it for good, maybe to try it out) I would be more than okay. 
Then it’ll be “postpartum”. I’ve seen it excused for years. Like we live in the 1800s and people can’t take a pill for that shit.
I thought they stopped with the gendered name thing in like 2008? Or did that only apply for births then? I’m half, just curious. As far as I could tell if one parent is a different nationality you can follow the naming laws of either country. But e.g. a half Brit can’t just change name by deed poll like with be valid for full Brits.
Or their great great grandparent, and great grandparent and parent and cousin and 😂
This fixation will more than likely make the unborn daughter hate her stupid name. All she will need is to hear the term vintage name
Exactly. I think SIL probably struggles with a little OCD* and the hormones aren’t helping. Under stress it’s easy to get caught in a loop. Poor thing. 

I empathize with SIL but at the same time OP’s been pretty patient and honestly sometimes it takes a short, sharp, shock to derail the hamster wheel. Might have been an act of mercy really. 

*Speaking from experience.
[removed]
[removed]
Exactly this. Brother and the rest should have put a stop to this with SIL a LONG time ago. Now they can deal with the fallout and no it is NOT on OP.  NTA.
The word fixation struck me... OP, does your sister have some form of ocd or something? Even if she did, it wouldn't make you an asshole for losing your temper on her. We've all been there. But it's additional insight on what the hell is happening to her
I know we all sound very critical of this soon to be mom. Unfortunately, it’s a likely righteous response by us. She is going way to far. She is obsessing. I’m more concerned about that.
I suggested a therapist. A physical with bloodwork is in order, too.
She may be experiencing this obsessing and what appears to be an actual panic attack due to something physical, but SOMETHING is promoting this worry that she isn’t facing or is not being up front and open about, maybe not even to herself.
Honestly she sounds like she’s having some breakdown to be this obsessed… I would advised OP to remove herself from the situation because she is clearly not interested in her response or hearing her.
Don’t get me started on that. I have delayed gastric emptying so I can’t have a lot of fiber. My friend who is a “health nut” and one of those crunchy people who thinks everything not “natural” is bad for you. Having to argue with her that I’d rather stay fed by eating non whole wheat processed bread that I can easily digest rather than eat whole wheat I can’t digest and be nauseous as a result. I had to explain to her fiber is not digestible and for healthy stomachs it’s good but mine has a hard time enough as it is and she didn’t believe me until she googled it. She is not a doctor or a nutritionist either but was convinced she was correct.
So, you're friends with my sister? 😂
Exactly! This is a preference, that is all. Everyone has them or we would all be exactly the same. It is no different than a thousand other things like why you are attracted to some people and not others or why you prefer certain foods, etc. Yes, a name is more personal but it is the same thing. Baby could end up loving the vintage name. There is no way to know. But SIL harping on it daily is not helping anyone. NTA.
Ha people occasionally ask me why too once they find out and I like to switch it up. ‘Ah well it was the basic b/tch boring name of its era and I thought I was an 8 year old yoonique’ (actually true but rude.

‘Oh I was named after my great grandmother and my mum didn’t know she was really abusive until then so for my granny.’ (Also true except my mum did know and did it to jibe at her mother.)

‘I had a HUGE crush on another girl with the name. It’s how I realised I was bisexual.’ (Not true. I am bi but it’s a boy’s name.)

‘I had a favourite book with a duck with this name and my parents called me that because I took a while to grow into my nose.’ (Not true.)

‘Oh I did it when I had to emigrate….’ (Not true but really long pause helps.)

The point is always a cheery almost confidential
reply to their quite invasive question that then makes them feel just uncomfortable enough to regret it.

And once a woman would not drop it (I think she had a deceased family member with the name) for the year we worked together and I said ‘I mean Angela, why did you call your kid Jack when you knew loads of other kids with the name? You liked it? Why do you think other people pick names? Have a think here.’

Somehow I’ve also never asked anyone why they **haven’t** changed their name and my own brother is named a 1970s hipster name that is basically Crapbag. It genuinely used to cause adults to gasp and kids torment him. He didn’t want to change it. I still think he’s mad not to have the issues it has caused but not my circus not my monkeys.
Almost the same with me. My family changed our surname when I was 14 and people asked "Why?" (big, involved story), "Did your parents get a divorce?" (no, religiously opposed), "Isn't it easier without the change?" (sure, but we like this better), "Won't you forget the other?" (no. But why should I have to remember it?), etc. Now I'm 30 and I still have people from school say, "I thought your name was \[previous surname\]. Did you marry/divorce?"

It's just a name change. I don't understand what's so mindblowing about changing your name.
This. I think this isn’t just about the name, but SIL realizing that the baby will turn into an actual person who might grow up and not like everything she likes. Getting over the whole “baby will be a perfect little mini-me” is probably the most crucial thing a parent can do to have a healthy relationship with their kid.
I feel bad for the unborn child. She sounds manipulative and controlling.
And OP’s brother should be doing this. Not OP
also, she probably will not love the child any less if they insist on a different name.  (if she does, there are major issues here)
Totally agree, I was very recently pregnant, I understand that everyone has a different experience but come on, hormones cannot be blamed for everything. Everybody has hormones in their bodies, all the time. Yes, there are times when they can influence us more, but blaming them for repeating the same behaviour 25 times is a bit bold. 
Precisely! I have a horrible vintage name and only use it for legal documents. Everyone knows me by my nickname. I have hated my legal name with a passion since I have had an opinion and it's still a strong feeling today as a 42f.
That's the thing too! There's a whole bunch of legal run around and whatnot to even do a legal name change that most people, even if they dispise their name, just don't want to deal with, so they'll just go by their middle name, an abbreviated version of their name, or will just go "hey, I'm Johnson, but please just call me Steve" or whatever. I work with quite a few people who's given name is completely out to lunch from the name they prefer go by. 

Personally, I am fine with my name. Wouldn't say I LOVE it but I certainly don't hate it by any means. It's just my name, it's who I am, and I like it well enough, but I am certain if I decided I hated it I'd be in that camp of "it's too much work to do the legalese to OFFICIALLY change it, I'll just introduce myself as a nickname and go by that."

Just to clarify. Not to say anything against those who DO feel so strongly they want it legally changed. You do you friend. Just that for a lot of people it's more hassle than they feel it's worth in the end.
With the exception of my uncle every one of my maternal grandparent’s kids including my mom go by their middle names. I never once heard my grandparents call my mom by her first name because she absolutely hates it. Nor did they get butt hurt about their choice of names not being used.
Over the years I've gone by my birth name, then one I chose, then another I chose, now back to my birth name or my gamertag.  It depends on how and when people me, as to what name they call me 😂
Heck one of my friends found out his grandmas name was a nickname at her funeral.
I really like this idea. My name is Alyssa and as I got older I wanted to go by Ali. I've gotten so much pushback because "Your name isn't spelled like that." 

Well I don't like it spelled like "Aly" doesn't look right to me. Spell it the way I said, dammit
I only have an initial (H) too. It kind of sucks because you don't have a backup to use if you don't like your first name or if there are a dozen other Mike/John/James in your class. 

People always find it hard to believe. Depending on my mood, I either tell people my folks could only afford an initial, or I tell them we're super religious and they wanted me to have the same middle initial as Jesus
My thought is actually that she wants to use Evelyn, and needs OP to justify what was “wrong” with it for her.
I was thinkimg the same and she probably wants to use a weird ass spelling too
It sounds like she’s trying to reshape reality to suit herself. She (and your brother, presumably) are picking out a name for their child, and your example of changing your name makes her worry “but what if the kid doesn’t like it.” But instead of the appropriate response to herself of “then I’ll support my child take whatever name they feel suits them,” she’s trying to make this worry go away by pushing you to conform. She wants to be reassured that she’s right. Everything would be perfect, if only you could tell her she’s right. Unfortunately for her, she isn’t right so this reassurance isn’t coming.

Many of my family members don’t use the name, or form of name, that their parents initially picked out. All the parents involved have simply respected the changes and treated their children as the autonomous people that they are.
Sure it does. It sets the wonderful precedent that her child will be given a name by its parents, and can still grow up and make its own decisions about who they want to be, and how they want to be called. 
Maybe that’s scary for her, and probably for your brother too - because they are thinking about bringing a baby into the world and trying to do everything right - and here is you, the cool aunt, and your parents, the grandparents, already showing them that the child will eventually go it’s own way and you brother and SIL will have to roll with Life.
You are going to be a great aunt. 
And hopefully the baby will come soon and your family will be so busy with feeding, changing, and lack of sleep from a healthy baby that they won’t worry so much about “getting it right” as they will about “just keeping it alive”
She sounds obsessed as someone with ocd she should really be watched closely pp. Pregnancy made most of my normal symptoms pretty much go away and then now at 19 months pp I have more ocd related issues than I have ever in my life. She could really be struggling and honestly not know it. I have had ocd my entire life and didn't know or get diagnosed when I was 20 I just had alot of weird things I had to talk myself into/out of to function and I didn't realize it was a real problem until my psychiatrist was like you do realize that is ocd and not normal? And I was absolutely baffled because it made so much sense but really didn't 'feel' bad/wrong if that makes sense. Hopefully she gets whatever kind of help she needs but I would mention to her husband to be extra mindful as this does seem like she's obsessed. I mean 25 times over her pregnancy and she still can't let it go and HAS to ask the same exact questions , it's not a good sign. She could just be stubborn but since husband is blaming hormones it really could be pregnancy related ocd and could go away OR worsen after birth , it's different for everyone.
Agatha HORTENSE!!
I was torn between Agatha Mildred and Agatha Ruth.... but Mildred won!
Hope that happens.
Offer up Evelyn to her.. tell her look I ain't using it I have hated it for the last 15yrs and I ain't likely tp change my mind.. feel free to use it and then mom still gets her Evelyn n you get the old fashioned name you want.. but I will call my neice evie lol
At the end of the day, she was attempting to control you. In law or not, I would have been pissed if someone told my child to change their name that I already approved of (in this case your parents approved of Indie) and we agreed together. Why would another adult try to raise of influence my kid to such a weirdly intense degree.
OP said in another comment that she changed her name before her SIL got pregnant.
I changed my legal name at 18, people told me repeatedly it was a bad move, or I'd hate it. They have been very wrong and I'm even happier with my decision the older and older I get. It sorta sounds to me like SIL is worried you're gunna "influence her kid" into changing it to a more modern version or completely different name. Shes being annoying and nosey so she deserves yelling tbh.
Did she perhaps stop taking an anxiety/depression medication for the pregnancy?
The parents are not backing up OP because they agree with/empathize with Hailey. Hailey is afraid of her child someday questioning/changing the name she picks, and OP’s parents are in that exact situation right now.
Better still start calling the SIL Evelyn and the brother too, they will soon get tired and start to understand how to leave her alone! 

I think I would have snapped after being asked the same question more than 5 times, that OP lasted more than 30 is a sign that SIL has some MH issues and OP is a saint!
In my case, in the US, it was easy and actually free because I'm disabled and had zero income at the time, so I qualified for legal aid. It also was under a sealed record because of the aforementioned stalker, the court didn't want him to know my new name. So my old name died, and a new name began. 

Normally here you'd have to post something in the newspaper first like "John Smith is changing their legal name to Jane Smith" a few times so that any debtors could find you, etc, but in my case I literally had a dude standing outside my bedroom window at night waiting for me to sleep so... they let me skip that particular step.
Right, but when the kid's 6 or 7, that's not gonna fly.
There was like one court case of a family of Indian (?) descent afaik, but I'm not completely sure.
Currently there's a lot of discussion about it dur to SBGG and potentially changes happen in the future.

We can only hope.
I can see it now. Her daughter decides to uses a nickname and her mother forbids it because it's not the exact name she gave her.
Yeah, as someone with OCD, it’s horrible knowing what that’s like  🙁  Also agree OP is NTA though - just feel bad for them both.
It may be OCD and as I've never had it I can't speak to it,  but I think she may also be very demanding and manipulative. She has a world view and Indie as a name doesn't fit her view.  She expects everyone to bow to her will to make her world right itself again.
Yeah with the number of times it was brought up to OP, maybe it's a kind of reassurance seeking.
You don't have to have a mental illness to be annoying.
Not everything is a disorder. Some people are just unreasonable jerks who expect everyone else to conform to their personal preferences. 

Amazing that Reddit assumes everyone is some sort of mentally ill and their behavior is therefore excused--until it's their Trump voting uncle being a deranged cultist. Then he's just a jerk. 

This woman is just a jerk, a spoiled brat who expects to get her own way. Push people until they give in out of exhaustion or go off on her, then get sympathy and pity and attention for the reaction they spent months needling out of someone.
It sounds like an anxiety disorder to me.
What about this sounds like autism? This is such a weird thing to say based on very little information.
Don't people say that's the definition of insanity? Doing something over & over & expecting a different result?

Just to be clear, I'm not diagnosing this woman as insane based on a single story I read about her but something definitely does sound off...

I will call her annoying & not feel too badly about it though bc what is her problem? This is such a simple concept to grasp-you either like something or you don't. Legally changing your name is a process & I'm sure OP put a lot of thought into it. I understand the initial curiosity from the SIL but when the questions have been asked & answered, LET IT GO.
I was thinking the same thing. If someone asked me the same question again and again I would suggest her partner gets her assessed for Alzheimer’s or senile dementia. I would tell her that after the 3rd time. The partner every following time.
Hang on a second - what part of this looks like autism? 

I'm autistic, and like most autistic people, I like (and understand) clear, direct communication. If someone tells me, "hey, stop asking that," then I stop asking. Also, once I have an answer, I'm not really interested in asking again - I might ask for clarification or reasoning, but even then I'm not gonna go at it over and over again.

I suppose it's possible SIL is autistic, but she's also an AH. The two are unrelated.
[removed]
This is not gaslighting. It is manipulation, which is a part of gaslighting. Lying is also not gaslighting but a part of it. Gaslighting is using manipulation and lying to make someone believe a false reality.
S i l should name her baby whatever she wants and if the baby grows up tonight like it you can just change it like Op.
I’m so tired of people resorting to the use of “gaslighting” and “manipulating” terms to explain behavior that clearly is argumentative and truculent instead.
Seriously! We’re not all the same. If I were an athlete, carb-loading might be for me, but I’m a diabetic, so no, it’s not. I eat based on my physiology, and so do you.
Years ago, I had a DOCTOR who decided he would cure me of Crohns disease with a very high fiber diet.   Crohns is incurable, and sometimes (not always) too much fiber causes severe cramping or an intestinal blockage.  (Every Crohns patient is different, so this does NOT apply to all.)  I dumped that doctor immediately.
I'll never understand people who think they know better about a person's medical needs than the actual person.

Against all odds I got diagnosed with gout when I was in my 20s. Generally older, overweight men who eat lots of meats & seafood are more prone to it. I'm a woman. I'm not overweight. I rarely eat meat. 

Bc of this my food & drink restrictions are specific & lengthy. My roommate at the time loved to cook & often made dinners, most of which I couldn't eat. She'd get SO pissed & I had to repeatedly explain that while I know fruits/veggies/fish are good for you, THEY AREN'T FOR ME. Certain items are fine; others are high in purine & could lead to a flare up. I simply can not express how painful it is...think of shattered glass in your joints. It often hits in the middle of the night so you go to bed feeling fine but wake up unable to move comfortably. Flares can last for days, even weeks. The meds given are effective but wreak havoc on your stomach so you'd better be sure to be near a bathroom.

There is literally nothing in this world that tastes good enough to justify those results. Sorry, roomie LOL
My Mom is obsessed with The Daniel Diet. She believes it can cure everything from a cold to cancer. We live in a small town, and my colleague came to me because my Mom badgering her about this diet was getting out of hand. My colleague has Crohns disease, and this diet mostly consists of eating raw fruit and vegetables, which is toxic to somebody with Crohns. The more my colleague would try and tell my Mom no, the more persistent, hyper, and animated my Mom would get. She eventually came to me for help because she was on the verge of telling her to fuck off.
I think that if our daughter had decided to change her name, her father and I would be on board. We did select a first and middle name that both had various nicknames she can decide to us if she wished. There were other girls in her classes with the same first name so we knew we were using a popular name for that time. She used a shorted version of her first name for her nickname early on and still uses it in her 20s. We use it too. I did remind her before applying to college that she needs to use her full name for her applications plus with any legal forms.
Yes, and that realization is not going to happen with everyone coddling the SIL. I feel sorry for her future kid!
She may also be afraid the child will hate her if they hate the name she gave them. I don’t think this is on OP, but the brother or OP’s mom could/should do some gentle questioning of SiL to find out WHY her kid potentially hating their name is such a problem. Figure out what direction this needs to be addressed from, cause yeah, other than being very annoying to Op, the underlying reason could be a major issue that will affect future nibbling.
We have a winnah!
Pregnancy is not a excuse to badger and berate over and over until the person complies with you. She asked her brother to stop the behavior but instead of dealing with it he said she’s pregnant. Then it blows up and he’s surprised I mean seriously moron for the win. Then her parents just keep letting it happen because it’s obviously been going for months. It’s absurd.
I dislike my legal name and usually don't introduce myself by it but by my nickname. My nickname is Even the name I clock on as at work, but my full legal name is on my discount card. My co-workers were surprised by that.
I have a fairly classic name that happened to be the top girls name the year before, after and of my birth year. It’s neither vintage nor super modern. There were 7 of us in my primary school class - not year -class of 28 mixed gender kids. Plus 2 hypenated. We ran out of signifiers like initials and hair colour. It can only be spelled one way.

It’s also quite a feminine name and I am quite tomboyish. I grew up to be a soft femme queer woman so shaved head but full make up and painted nails. It just didn’t suit me. It never felt like my name. I came home aged 8 and announced I would only answer to a shortened version of my middle name. 

I’m now 45 and legally never changed it as I moved from Northern Ireland to England and it was so complicated within the devolved nations of the UK, two passports and my credit rating. So the NHS and tax authorities use my legal one. My doctors always think I’m a bit slow because I never answer to ‘my’ name til about third go.

I have never ever regretted it, even aged 8 I did not relent if someone refused. My dad called me it for 6 months he was so pissed off. I called him by his two full first names back instead of dad. 

My BF and I had been together about 7 years when I got appendicitis in lockdown. We don’t live together and no visitors at that point. I go to hospital by ambulance, call him high on morphine with a serious infection and tell him I’m in hospital. No idea what the issue is yet but it later become sepsis. I finish the call with ‘oh yes, if the NHS call they’ll say NAME.’ Him ‘is that the ward?’ Me ‘haaaa, nooooo, it’s meeeee!’ and hang up.

BF knows me and has gleaned some concept of Irish traditions so rather than phone back and talk to someone off their bap he walks ten minutes down the road to my flat and looks at my passport to decide the 50-50 chance he didn’t know this info or I’m absolutely loop the loop.

Texts me ‘yeah that name does not suit you. No wonder it never came up. Does explain why your name is spelled like a child picked it and probably wished it had a letter i to put a heart over. That did always baffle me but never knew how to ask nicely.’

Me ‘glad we cleared that up in time for a eulogy. You can make everyone think they are at the wrong person’s funeral.’ 

We referred to it as wedding or funeral roulette back home: is your friend Davey actually called David William or Patrick Anthony and wore a furry hat to first day of school and is Davey Crockett since? It was always a let down when they just used their given name. My mum has 75+ first cousins and three siblings. One uses their ‘government’ name and they were named after their mum who didn’t go by either of the two names she gave her eldest daughter.

They’re knocking 90 most of them and never changed it ‘back.’ I have about 35 relatives called Kathleen. Somehow not complicated at all. But the legal name on my documents is not ‘my name’ in the sense of my self and identity. So I always respect how people like to be called including kids. You give a name. You don’t own the intellectual property to how the kid uses that gift.

That said I knew two Evelyns: one born when it was modern in about 1910 who hated the name. One where it was vintage as my peer who loved it for being a bit different. Problem is it seems to be currently as popular as my name I ended up changing due to over use making us feel like Child A,B,C.

NTA to Indie.
Same, everyone knows me by my nickname! When my husband and I sent out our wedding invites, using our legal names, many people had no clue that was even my legal name.
Same, everyone knows me by my nickname! When my husband and I sent out our wedding invites, using our legal names, many people had no clue that was even my legal name.
In my grandma's family everyone had names we called them vs. the names they used.
Hi fellow Alyssa! I had a period of time when I wanted to go by Ali, my mom held such disdain for that nickname when I told her, so I never did it.

I say go for it! Rick is spelled differently from Richard but is still a common nickname for it.
I wouldn't doubt it. Soon we will welcome Harryette into the family.
How about Hyacinth? With a fitting surname that ”is pronounces Buckée”?
Now now, if you take the French version and drop the “h”, Ortensia is lovely and underused.
Absolutely 

“Good thing I changed my name since you love and care about Evelyn so much. I can’t wait to tell niece how she got my old name!”
I think I've read this type of post already 😅 
AITAH for refusing to let my daughter use a nickname instead of the vintage name I gave her, that she has hated most of her life?
We knew a family like this. Lots of kids, almost all had names that were easily shortened/nicknamed, but only one actually used the nickname (only sometimes, with immediate family). The mom wasn't really *mean* about it, but very insistent. Now that they're mostly grown, they choose or let others around them choose.
This is really going to trip her up when she has a child.
Or a control freak.
This ⬆️ ⬆️ ⬆️
And the urge to "diagnose" every asshole does actual, real harm to real people because it stigmatized us and makes people assume we are assholes and toxic when actually we just process things differently and need some different accomodations and are just people like everyone else at the end of the day, but now we get to live with extra stigma on top.
Doesn’t make it ok. Her parents should have stepped in and made clear the behaviour toward their daughter was unacceptable long before it got to this point. The brother excusing it with “hormones” wasn’t good enough either. She maybe needs help herself, and no one in the family had this girls back.
Or she's just the kind of AH who thinks that, jst becasue she's pregnant, she has to get her way in absolutely everything. OP is resisting, so she keeps on and on.
I am autistic and OPs SIL does not sound autistic from this. Just controlling.
Because some people will take any chance to stigmatize us by conflating any and all assholish unhealthy behavior with our very existence.
It’s not the name change the SIL can’t come to grips with—it’s that the SIL can’t fathom that a child isn’t a posession you can make to like something just because you want them to.
She never will. Every time her child refers to OP as Aunt Indie, SIL is definitely going to tell her that her name is really Evelyn.
OP, how often do you see your SIL? because I think you need a break from her mania. Perhaps you could politely excuse yourself whenever she brings up this subject. If being frank with her doesn't send the message that you're not going to change your name maybe showing her your back will.
Thank you for pointing out the distinction.

Not that it makes anything better, but clarification can help when explaining or understanding a situation better
You’re wrong, that’s never been what gaslighting means and I have no idea where you came up with that definition. You must’ve misheard/misread it somewhere. Good thing I was here to correct you. What you’re going to look it up to try and prove me wrong? That’s so disrespectful. The internet is wrong all the time anyway. Just trust me.

(This has been an example of gaslighting)
I am begging Reddit to learn what "gaslighting" actually means again, because this is not it.
THANK YOU!   that term gets tossed around with reckless abandon and used incorrectly more often than not.   it's like a cool new buzzword people feel obligated to throw into a reply.
This. 

This is something I teach alongside logical fallacies to my high school students. It's a cousin to them and a useful abuse tactic to know. And I want to send at least a few people out using it correctly.
That's what I think also. She is afraid of auntie being a bad role model. Worried that one day she'll hear those dreaded words "if she can do it, why can't I?"
That’s what SIL is afraid of, I’m pretty sure. Doesn’t excuse her behavior. 
And guess who'll be blamed if that happens!
God, truculent is such a great word.
It's like those people who don't believe someone can't have a food allergy or  intolerance. At a kids' birthday party, some parent (who I didn't know) was touting his favorite Indian restaurant. I said that I have to be careful at Indian restaurants because I can't digest yogurt (I probably lack the enzyme needed as anytime I eat anything with yogurt, I end up doubled over in pain). He claimed that the spices used will negate the yogurt. Nope, that's not a thing (plus, I can't eat spicy food, so that's another reason I need to avoid that cuisine).

Some people just don't get that their diet might not be right for another person.
Try to explain that to her, she has vilified all gluten and seed oils and everything in between, and thinks I should do the same. Tried to get me to give up gluten bc maybe that’s what was causing my nausea but plain white bread was the only thing that sat right in my stomach for the longest time. Everything else would make me nauseous
Yes, this is the exact fight I had in my household. One of our kids have Crohn's and the high-fiber diet that my spouse needs to maintain for their heart disease is not good for our child. It's hard for people to get that your journey is not someone elses.

I'm glad you recognized a bad doctor and dumped them.  We initially, had a bad doctor while trying to get the Crohn's diagnosed who kept telling us that it was constipation (while our child was having daily BM) trying to add more fiber in their diet.  It took us 5-months to dump them and finding another doctor who listened got us the correct diagnosis with in a month. Good doctor's make a huge difference. Trust your gut. (no pun intended)
As you should, I dumped my doctor for not doing anything. I kept telling him there was stuff on top of the delayed gastric emptying and he refused to listen. My next provider diagnosed me with GERD also within 15 min of my appointment and she was correct.
I’ve had Crohn’s since 1978. I was 15. Now 61. I’ve been lucky. Pay attention to your eyes. If it feels like pink eye - it could be iritis (inflammation of the iris). No gastro told me about this - it was the ophthalmologist in the ER. Best wishes to those with it - it can be challenging.
Ouch, I feel you on this.  My son has Crohn's, and he, at the ripe old age of 18, lost intestines to the disease.  Losing gut means that things like nutrient absorption and fiber requirements are impacted.  He simply cannot handle fiber/roughage, and has to have foods that are easily digested/low residue...Which usually means proteins or  processed foods such as white bread.

He started showing symptoms when he was 15, and one of those symptoms ended up being hip joint pain.  I can't tell you how many doctors told him/me that what he had was just him eating the wrong things, "growing pains", he needed more fiber or more natural foods, etc.  And meanwhile, his condition deteriorated.  I watched a healthy teen male lose 100 lbs. in 3 months and go from healthy to deathly sick, while these physicians who saw him just twiddled their thumbs and muttered about how teens were always picky eaters.

It took a rheumatologist at Tulane, who saw him for his hip, to figure it out.  She took all of one colonoscopy/endoscopy to come back with a diagnosis of Crohn's/H. pylori, and a recommendation of flagyl and a low-residue diet.  At the time, the kid's ilium (the aperture between the small and large intestines) was inflamed had an opening the size of a pencil eraser.  It took one episode of him puking fecal matter, and the resultant surgery, for doctors to realize that my son could have died.  He actually came close a few times.

My ex/son's father stated with absolute certainty that the diagnosis was wrong and all the guy needed was a good raw food diet.  jfc.  Son actually stopped visiting his dad for a while because his digestion was more important than his dad's ego, and he wasn't about to spend the weekend trying to defend why he couldn't eat what the rest of the family was eating.
I have microscopic colitis so not Crohn's but similar symptoms and diet. I lost count over how many doctors tried to get me to increase fiber when a low residue diet has been keeping things to a dull roar for decades. Even one of the residents working at the gastro office kept pushing for a bit, until his attending came in. It was so satisfying to hear him get lectured right in front of me.
You should see people’s faces when they offer me salads and I have to refuse bc I can’t have raw veggies. I simply do not digest them. Sorry for the gross TMI but short of telling them I’ll shit out the leaves still fully formed, everyone insists I’ll be good for me. I also can only have small portions bc my stomach fills up fast, especially when I eat fibrous meals that I can’t digest fast, so why the fuck should I waste all my stomach space on a salad that’ll make me nauseous in a few hours instead of eating the main course that has component that are compatible with my diet? It’s a constant battle
Yeah but see you’re treating your daughter like an individual with her own wants and need and seem to have planned to do so from the get-go by picking names with many possible variations, like a rational person (who let you on Reddit?) 

I’ve got the feeling SIL isn’t there yet. Hopefully she’ll get there, but at the moment it seems like fantasy and perfectionism is getting the better of her.
This is the most Irish comment I've read in a long time, between the rambling and the slang and the hilarity. My first name is Kathleen courtesy mom (Mary Margaret) and grandma (Noreen). (And she was Nonny at home and Nora on paper.) I hate my name LMFAO.
<3  You are awesome!

I picked my own name about 25 years ago, and it's what *used* to be a super-obscure Irish name that I adored because of an even more obscure series of fantasy books, and then about 15 years ago it became insanely popular and now there are a MILLION of me and I'm very annoyed.

But it's still my name.  I just am hipster about it, I guess, I had the name before it was cool.
If Roberts can be Bob, Richards can be Dick, Williams can be Bill, and Kathryns can be Katie/Kate (my birth name and the family nickname I hated), you can both be Ali and anyone who complains can suck it. ❤️ There's no y in Roxanne and that doesn't stop me from being Roxy! Legally changed it a year ago and while it's been a huge pain in the ass to do so at my age (and just before getting married, too, so then I got to do ANOTHER change for the last name😅), it was so worth it.
Hyacinth Hortense Buckelby!!
No it's bouquet not bucket
Spelt bucket 🪣
Plot twist: it was OP's mom. 😆
I am so absolutely tired of "pregnancy hormones" being used by women as an excuse for their bad behavior. 

I've been pregnant twice myself. I don't care if you're pregnant, you still have to be a human being.
Parents didn't like it when she changed her name, they're probably enjoying SIL turning herself into a flying monkey without them even having asked for it.
Seriously! This isn’t a fight with a similarly-aged adult. This is a 17yo minor child. The parents should’ve told the SIL to back the F off. FFS, protect your child!!

How insecure is this woman?? Name the child what you want. If you’re that worried the kid might not like it, don’t use it. Or make it a middle name. Good lord. 

NTA
It doesn’t seem like she was that way before. But from my own anxiety (which is controlled) and my interactions with people who do not have their anxiety under control, this is classic out of control anxiety. She seems to be focusing on the name as the one thing she thought she could control and OP not liking her name set the SIL off. Because it’s so irrational this is what makes sense to me.
Exactly what I was thinking
“That’s a bingo.”
Yea.. it seems as though SIL is blind to the actualization that OPs desires are not influenced by their parents initial choice. The decision was theirs from the start. If baby doesn’t like their name, it’s not SILs fault. We can’t change someone else’s preference.. now guilting them *could* go either way. Likely bad if baby isn’t a future people pleaser. Best option is to not bring any light to the subject of names, if something so ridiculous is **that** fn important.
I like your little icon thingy. I just bought a Demogorgon hand sanitizer holder from Bath & Body Works that I do not need lmao.
Perfect!  Then OP can tell her neice/nephew that if they hate their name, they can always change it!
Politely excusing is so nice a way to handle this. I'd start hard rolling my eyes and saying "are you on this tired topic AGAIN?" every time and refusing to participate in the discussion.
They had us in the first half, I'm not gonna lie...lol
Huh, I didn’t know my college ex had a Reddit account. 😅
...I almost downvoted you, but then I finished reading. Well played.
Or just watch the movie!
Was about to click that reply arrow till I got to the end 🤣 well played
You got me! I admit my blood pressure was rising in the first few sentences. 🤣
Lying is not the same as gaslighting. Lying is a component of gaslighting . People lie , even pathological lying doesn’t take in the entire picture of gaslighting someone. This term has moved into pop culture stature without all the features that has to be present to take lying to the next level.  People lie but it’s usually to save face, at times there’s the “white lie” meant to spare someone from hurt feelings and for them to save face. Others lie to avoid consequences for their behaviors which is where most of the harmful lying comes from. This isn’t a complete picture of how gaslighting works.

Gaslighting arises as part of anti-social behaviors. The lies usually aren’t as important as the manipulation and the sort of marionette control these people use over another. It’s a persistent pattern of manipulation done over time.  Part of the goals is, as happened to Ingrid Bergman in the movie “Gaslight” that was the source of the term so casually bantered about, is to lead the victim to question everything that they thought true about the world they live in. It’s more than how most lying occurs because there’s a component of, I guess it could be said, enjoyment in the manipulation. In the movie there was the goal of financial gain but also in watching as the victim’s perceptions of everything they thought they knew is questioned. Perhaps an exaggeration but the manipulator tells the victim that the sun rises in the west and goes down in the east. When the victim protests that the opposite is true the manipulator will ask “How do you know that’s true?”  Maybe an example that seems over the top but this is the sort of means to set the stage for the more subtle lying and manipulations. This is where as an example the manipulator asks the victim something like “Did you turn the lights off when you left the basement ( for example) ?” The person did shut them off however the manipulator while victim was elsewhere turned them back on.  “Are you sure?” the manipulator will ask.  Victim insists they did, manipulator will then say that both of them check wherein the victim sees the lights to the basement are on. To twist the knife of questioning what’s true for the victim they may say “You said you turned them off so why are they still on?”  The victim at this point becomes confused because the lights are on but now there’s a conflict in their mind between two seemingly contradictory truths presented to them.  The manipulator will say things to reinforce what they want the victim to believe to maintain the state of confusion of between what they think they knew and the perceptions of what’s now an opposing truth. If the victim counters with telling the manipulator “you must have turned them on.” The manipulator will say something that keeps the victim off balance like” You were the last one in the basement. I was out in the garage the whole time.” So, these kinds of lying don’t fit in with the reasons most of us lie but to manipulate, even if there’s no payoff other than seeing how the victim doubts themselves.
You win the Internet today.
But also, a simple solution to that is to not mention it to the kid. If Auntie Indie is always Auntie Indie, the kid will have no reason to think her name was ever changed.
Kids can do it when she's 18 regardless. Wouldn't that be funny for Sil lol
I have to admit, I had no idea it’s POSSIBLE to be unable to digest yogurt… but if I doubted you, I would look it up instead of just deciding you’re wrong. Is that sort of thing REALLY so hard??
Also, not being able to eat a food is not a rejection or a judgement of the person who made it or the culture it came from.
I had some so called "friends" test my allergy by putting a bag of it under my chair at an event.  When my face started to swell they claimed that I was just reacting "to all the grass."  Even after I discovered the allergen. I left and they never apologized.  They could have put me in the hospital.
Can you eat other kinds of dairy just fine?
I hear ya. Trying to convince people we know what works & what doesn't isn't something we should have to do yet here we are. I don't mind explaining it once or twice but when it's a constant thing it's obnoxious. I literally taped a list of things I couldn't eat on the fridge & my roommate STILL took it personally when I didn't eat her dinners. What really pissed me off is that she had seen (& helped) me during a flare in my big toe. Legit, I could not walk.  I called off work, stayed in bed, didn't really eat or drink anything for a couple days bc walking to the bathroom felt impossible. Even the sheet touching my toe made me cry & this bitch saw how miserable I was yet continued to berate me every time I declined her food.
I'm sorry busted up laughing. 

Because this is exactly how I named all my kids.
Ha, the rambling is one step away from asking you your whole route here in the car. It was a really long bus journey while I was typing :)

Noreen is a name always cracks me up when people say they want an authentic Irish name and pick Fiadh or something. I have never met a Noreen who wasn’t Irish, probably with a sister called Imelda.

The Kathleens in my family used Kitty, Leenie, Kathryn, Kate, Katie, Renee, Kay and Mary. Kitty was married to Tom which NO ONE seemed to find funny except me. I don’t love it as a name but I don’t recall ever meeting an unpleasant Kathleen. It seemed to almost certainly guarantee the nicest person in that family or peer group so I smile when I hear it.
I love the positivity and acceptance! Honestly I don't feel like Ali fits me anymore, but sometimes I think of middle school me as Ali. Give her what she really wanted ❤️
It is 💐
Yeah, and this isn't hormones. Hormones are what make you bawl when you realize for the hundredth time that you can't see your toes.  They can make you get pissy over something that wouldn't usually bother you.  I'm also pretty sure it was hormones - at least prior to my daughter's birth - that made me so fiercely protective of my personal space while I was pregnant. I'm not very confrontational ordinarily, but man - you even looked like you were thinking about feeling up my belly and I'd start getting mad. Unless they did something like trigger some latent anxiety, it doesn't make sense blaming this on hormones.  Even then, her husband should have been talking to her, and OP's parents should have been stepping in for \*her\*.

Also, there's not a damned thing wrong with liking the name Indie.
I've been pregnant twice AND I'm a chronic pain and MI sufferer, still didn't act anything like this. This is a neurosis horse of an entirely different color.
Right? We didn’t tell a soul any of the names we were thinking of until we named the kid, because we didn’t want their opinions 😂. 

My kids are teens and early 20s now and I always told them I liked their names but if they didn’t they could use a nickname, their middle name, or if they had really not liked it I’d have supported them changing their name when they got older. They all ended up liking their names, but I wouldn’t take it personally if they didn’t.

One of my kids got called a nickname from babyhood because siblings shortened and added a suffix their name. When they moved up schools at age 12 they wanted called their given name not the nickname. I contacted the school and asked them to please start to use their given name, not the nickname. It didn’t really stick as even though most of the teachers changed, all the kids kept up with the name they’d called them since preschool and they ended up deciding they liked the nickname - but I supported them whatever. I feel like a person should get to decide what others call them, why would I make someone miserable forcing a name they don’t like on them?
She could also be just experiencing normal end of pregnancy wild ass hormonal shifts and normal anxiety (not an anxiety disorder) and fixation. It's pretty normal to experience these things at the end of pregnancy. It's just that it's usually focused on nesting or something that makes more sense in connection with the baby. 

Her projecting her name fixation on OP is what's not. Most likely (considering OP hasn't given us evidence to the contrary), she will calm tf down after birth. She'll likely appolgize or act like it never happened. 

I have autism, adhd and anxiety. I was chaotic at the end of my pregnancy. But my neuro typical friends...Sheesh! Some of them fixated on the wildest shit! I was ready to have the mental health talk. They (most of them) were back their normal selves after having their children.
💯
Same
So many people don’t even know it’s from a movie! I’ve had to explain this to so many people who are using it for so many things that aren’t gaslighting or it’s been used against them and they’re told it’s gaslighting (when it isn’t). I explain the movie and it clicks for people so they can understand it.
What is the name of the movie?
Thank you for giving a longer explanation! You should c&p with mine as the TLDR 🤣
It’s the only way. We had to make a last minute the switch with our oldest when we realized that the names we loved combined in a way that would have made him waaaay too easy to tease and offered zero decent nicknames. We were much more careful after that 🤣
Eh, I mean, I think it *is* hormones triggering her anxiety. That can totally happen. She’s trying to figure out a name for the baby, wants to get it “right”, is worried that her kid will hate their name, probably picturing her kid hating their name and crying about it, etc. She’s probably fixating that if she can just figure out *why* OP hates their name, she can prevent it from happening to her child. It’s not unusual for pregnant women to ruminate over and over on a “problem”, to feel like they have something they have to get “perfect”, especially if they have any kind of disposition towards anxiety at all. 

That doesn’t make how she’s treating OP okay, of course. She should have stopped ages ago, and if she truly couldn’t, the family should have stepped in, both because that’s a sign she really needs a hand and because OP shouldn’t have to tolerate it.
People seem to use gaslighting as a synonym for lying now. It is so stupid.
I watched the movie once while my ex husband was at work. By the end I was shaking because I realised I was living that film. That's why he's my ex husband & I'm alive to type this. Off the original topic, yes, but important nonetheless.
Actually, it's from a play which came before the movie.
Gaslight
AITA for eating at the children I babysit for's house?
I (20f) babysit for some extra cash on the side. This just happened and it's eating me up so here we go. 

So, the family ordered pizza for dinner. Mom left cash on the table for me to pay. It was me, and two boys (7 and 10) large cheese pizza and breadsticks. I have always been under the impression that the babysitter is allowed to have a reasonable amount of dinner if they're expected to serve dinner. I've babysat a few times in the past and have never encountered this.

When the parents came home to relieve me they asked how tonight went. I said fine, and said that the pizza place was really good as I had never ordered from there before. Mom looked at me puzzled, and asked why I ate the kids dinner. I said I just had two pieces of pizza and a breadstick. I feel as if this was not an inappropriate amount to eat. However, the parents disagreed. Dad said that they didn't expect to have to feed me dinner as well, and told me not to eat their family's food. 

Overall, I am very uncomfortable and confused by this experience. Both boys were fed, and did not complain about being hungry for the rest of the night. I personally have always assumed, perhaps wrongly, that if I am expected to serve dinner as a sitter than I am welcome to have a serving. Is this something anyone else has experienced? AITA?
Welcome to /r/AmITheAsshole. Please view our [voting guide here](https://www.reddit.com/r/AmItheAsshole/wiki/faq#wiki_what.2019s_with_these_acronyms.3F_what_do_they_mean.3F), and remember to use **only one** judgement in your comment.

OP has offered the following explanation for why they think they might be the asshole:

 > I ate a share of food that may have not been mine without asking, only assumed. Especially after the parents pointed out that this is not okay.

Help keep the sub engaging!

#Don’t downvote assholes!

Do upvote interesting posts!

 [Click Here For Our Rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/AmItheAsshole/about/rules) and [Click Here For Our FAQ](https://www.reddit.com/r/AmItheAsshole/wiki/faq)

##Subreddit Announcements

###[Happy Anniversary, AITA!](https://new.reddit.com/r/AmItheAsshole/comments/15vlv9g/almost_better_than_a_double_rainbow_celebrating/)

Follow the link above to learn more

---

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose/?to=/r/AmItheAsshole) if you have any questions or concerns.*

*Contest mode is 1.5 hours long on this post.*
NTA Eating when you feed the children is absolutely the norm. When I was younger and baby sat the parents would always tell me to raid the pantry after bedtime and I tell my babysitter for my kids now the same. That’s just crazy what did they expect you to do just starve?
NTA Cross them off your list, they're cheap and unreasonable. It's just a matter of time before they try to stiff you on the agreed upon payment. I treated my sitters like gold. They were watching my children. I made sure they had plenty to eat and their favorite snacks in the pantry.
Wow, NTA. That family is rude and cheap AF.

I usually order extra to accomodate for babysitters, ask their preferences for pizza toppings, etc., if we order pizza or any kind of food. I also let them know where the snacks are, and to help themselves to water, soda, Gatorade etc in the fridge. 

I nannied and babysit for many many families over the years as a teenager and young adult too, and it was always like this as well.

What an AH family. Don’t babysit for them again.
NTA. I'm sure they had enough to eat. Were they expecting leftovers?
My daughter started as a babysitter and now is a nanny during summer and during school breaks, and she has never not been offered snacks or a meal. Since my daughter has IBS she sometimes brings her own food and every family when daughter babysat again made sure there was food that was safe for my daughter to eat. In fact the family she is an nanny for changed their shopping and some eating habits for the children so my daughter could eat with the children. Never babysit again and explain why and you are NTA.
NTA. It is customary that if you have to feed the children you're watching by any means (whether they leave money to place an order or you cook), you also get to eat. That's how it's always been when I babysat or when someone sat with my kid.  If they call you again to sit for their kids I would go over to their house and show them this post and tell them you won't sit for them again if you are expected to starve while the kids eat in front of you. 

🤷🏼‍♀️ Maybe entitled parents these days are different so to be on the safe side .. anyone who asks you to babysit that will be during a lunch or dinner time, ask if you will be provided the same lunch or dinner as the children.
NTA, you didn't eat an excess amount. What parents gives the babysitter money for food but doesn't want the babysitter to have some as well?
NTA- hopefully they call you again so you can politely decline due to their lack of common decency. Also, I would highly recommend you do not babysit for them again, ppl like this can create real problems if anything ever arose or happened, trust me you will be blamed, denounced and slandered if they ever had a reason in their minds to. How you do one thing is how you do everything and they clearly are ungrateful, entitled and selfish. Even if you need money it is not worth the possible bs.
NTA. That’s so rude of them to order takeout and not expect you to eat it!  If you’re at their house during a meal time then a meal should be provided.  Honestly I would just not babysit for them again. That’s so weird and rude of them.
NTA and I would have assumed the same thing. Sounds like it's time to raise your rate to cover the cost of feeding yourself
NtA lol w.t.f. 

Im actually afraid of these people. this is some shit aliens posing as humans would do.
Never babysit for them again unless they agree to feed you. NTA! I started cooking while babysitting at age 10. We all 3 sat and ate. Every family after that first one provided enough food for kids and sitter. It is outrageous that they expected you to starve.
NTA

I can’t imagine being this cheap, petty, and demeaning to someone. I am actually thinking that if I found out my kid was treated this way as a babysitter I would tell them never to babysit for that family again. I think I would probably have words with the parents too for being completely AH humans. 

I don’t know about where you live but historically… finding a babysitter is more difficult that finding a babysitting gig.
NTA 

I wouldn't be babysitting for them again unless they paid me double or at least time and a half. They were mean! It's not you!
NTA. Never babysit for them again. Their behaviour is outrageously rude.
NTA. I’ve babysat about a million times and every single time the family ALWAYS told me to help myself to dinner and snacks and whatever. That’s absolutely insane
NTA,
Their reaction to you having some of the pizza tells you that they do not see you as a human being. You are there to SERVE them and therefore, you are not equal to them and entitled to kindnesses.
I would not work for this family again.
NTA.  I need to get my glasses checked, because at first I read this as "AITA for eating the children I babysit for?"  If this had been your actual question, I'd have a different response.  But if you're taking care of food for the kids, I think it's entirely appropriate for you to have some food with the kids, assuming you're not consuming food that is supplied for some kind of medical need.  (I'm thinking like gluten-free bread for the kid with gluten allergies).
NTA - it is completely normal and expected that the babysitter is included in any food orders. This is such a weird attitude from them! Is there a cultural barrier or something?
NTA, babysitters are surrogates when the parents are away, the kids eat and you eat. It actually helps encourage them! Just because it’s pizza doesn’t necessarily mean the kids will sit still and finish their meals you have to set it the way it works in the home which makes it easier for the babysitter.
NTA... just refuse to babysit for them. Your thinking was reasonable
I've never heard of a babysitting situation where food was ordered and the sitter wasn't allowed to eat. The only exception would be if she told them she had eaten before she came, and even then it would be up to her if she wanted more. The parents acted rudely, thoughtlessly,  ignorantly and meanly. Next time they want her to babysit, she should tell them her rate has tripled, and if they don't want to go for that then she should never babysit for them again. In fact, never babysit again for them anyway.
NTA and those parents need to get their heads out of their asses. Entitled shitty behavior.
NTA

Simply din't babysit for that family again
NTA did they expect you to bring a bag lunch or just watch the kids eat in front of you? That’s ridiculous.
NTA- 

What were they expecting you to do?
Cook your own dinner instead of watching the kids?
Go without food?
Bring your own dinner and reheat it in their kitchen? 

There are a couple scenarios that I think would have slightly different outcomes.

With something shareable like pizza and breadsticks- I would assume that you could have some.

If they had a lasagna and a salad, casserole etc You could have some. 

What would be slightly different: 
If they gave you $40 to take everyone to McDonald's, I'm not sure that I would assume that the $40 covered your food.  In that case, I think it could be possible that you would pay for whatever they wanted and then you would buy your own food with your own money if you so chose. 

I think in that case, they should specify whether you could buy your own food with that money as well.  I feel like most people in that circumstance would. (Take the kids out for ice cream and get one for yourself as well etc). 

Petty Revenge: 
Next time you go over, heat a really stinky fish in their microwave as your dinner.
NTA. I have never, ever not provided a meal for the babysitter. It would never occur to me to not to. It's common decency. Plus, who wants a hangry person watching their kids?
Oh man, not only would I never babysit for these guys, I'd be telling my parents and close friends why, just for the sheer audacity.

NTA, that couple is so, so, so weird and out of line. "don't eat the family's food" is the complete opposite of what I had growing up.
NTA. I spent a good chunk of my teen years babysitting. Parents would leave snacks specifically for me. As in “ kids were fed dinner but if you’re hungry chips are in cabinet and and soda in fridge.” And if I did need to feed them, they always assumed I was eating too. This parents are jerks. I wouldn’t bbsit for them again.
They trust you with the lives of their children but don't respect you enough to feed you? These people will never have your back and will blame you for everything that would ever go wrong, stay away. NTA
Nta...don't ever babysit for them again.
NTA. I babysat all through high school and college and have never had a parent say I couldn't eat the food I served the kids. I mean, I always made sure the kids ate and were finished first, but even if the kids ate everything, I had parents get mad at me for not eating or just searching the fridge for something else.
If they expected you to babysit at/around dinner time (especially if you started before 6pm), it is completely reasonable for you to expect that you would be included in dinner. The fact that they not only brought this up but then doubled-down vs letting it slide feels very strange. It was a large pizza FFS! NTA.
Lol. Next time they ask, just say you have “dinner plans”. And the plan is not to starve while keeping children alive.
They suck NTA.
NTA.  These people are strange.  Did they actually exoect you to go without dinner?  I wouldn't sit for them again.  This is no normal.
NTA.  Imagine trusting someone enough to leave your kids with them but not feeding them!  Outrageous.  I give the FedEx guy a muffin if he shows up when I'm baking for goodness sakes.
NTA: that family is cheap and ridiculous! The babysitter is always welcome to help themselves to some pizza or snacks from the house. That’s just basic etiquette!
NTA and I would never babysit for them again.  I'd also spread the word to other friends you have that babysit.
Absolutely NTA. A babysitter eating pizza is as normal as it gets. I wouldn’t work for them again.
NTA- don’t ever babysit there again. This is maybe one of the most bizarre things I’ve ever heard.
NTA

You're there at dinner time. You get to eat dinner.

I would never expect someone I hired to watch my child to sit there while she ate or bring their own meal.

It's 100% expected that you eat too.
NTA.

My wife and I always provide food to our babysitters, either by ordering for them or giving them enough $$. 

Tell these parents to lose your number.
Absolutely NTA!! Please never sit for this family ever again. It is customary & APPROPRIATE to provide food for the sitter! 

You aren’t working at some regular place of business where employees provide their own food and beverage; you are guest at someone’s HOME watching their children! Hospitality is expected!  Wow, I’m speechless they even had the audacity to tell you not to eat their food. 

These ppl are not only rude but cheap AF.
NTA. It was dinner time. Do they expect you to go hungry?
NTA but I read the title as “eating the children’s I babysit the house for” and was very confused at first
Nope. Feeding the sitter at dinner time is expected. Those people are incredibly out of touch with the real world. I’d cross them off the list.
NTA - the families I sat for usually asked me what kind of snacks I liked just so they could have them ready for me.. one mom even left out home baked cookies and squares every time I was there.
NTA- don’t babysit for them again
That’s super weird. If I had a babysitter over I would absolutely expect that they would have some pizza with the kids. The people you encountered are not normal.
NTA and don’t baby sit for them anymore.
NTA.  I babysat for over ten years and it was always expected that if I serve a meal, I eat as well.
NTA, dont babysit for those cheapasses again. Its standard policy to feed the sitter or let them know what is available to eat if x isnt.
NTA. If you are babysitting over meal times they either need to feed you, or let you know that you will need to feed yourself. I would definitely not sit for that family again. They sound awful.
Maybe I’ve only ever babysat for nice people but they either bought something I could eat (I have gluten allergies) or left money for me to order takeout. You can’t expect someone to sit for your kids from 6-10 (or later) and not need to eat something. Common courtesy. SMH.
NTA. When I would babysit the parents always made sure to tell me to have something as well. 

I wouldn’t babysit for parents who were that strict with food
NTA I’d never babysit for them again.
NTA. Ummmm are you supposed to starve?  I wouldn’t accept any other gigs from them again
NEVER AGAIN will you babysit for them!
NTA. I used to babysit a lot, and I was always welcome to eat with the kids. People who want good employees are going to treat their employees right, and they did not treat you right.
NTA. I thought it was common sense and just good etiquette that you should provide food and drinks for babysitter as well. I get if they got mad at you for having your friend or boyfriend over while babysitting, but angry at you for having a couple of slices of a large pizza (about 12 slices) is ridiculous on these cheap parents parts. Don't babysitter for them again. They're very rude.
I hope you quit. Thats awful of them to treat you that way
NTA. I wouldn’t babysit for them again.
NTA.  If I hired a sitter, I'd expect them to at least have a snack while they were in my home.
NTA. They’re weird.
NTA. Did they expect you to pack a lunch to bring with you? This is bizarre behaviour on the parents' part, and I've never experienced or heard of this happening.
NTA 

But don’t babysit for them again! Weirdos!
Nta

I'd stop babysitting for them asap
Oof def NTA. Even when I dog/cat sit people tell me to eat wtv is in the kitchen or if it's not stocked, to order food on their account if I'm around a meal time. 

You should definitely not sit for these people again. And I have a feeling if they pull something like this with another sitter , people would stop accepting their requests. I feel like you could send them a message letting them know politely that this isn't how you'd like to work.
NTA. Kids follow by example. If you're not eating, they won't.

Don't tell the parents if you filled up your waterbottle while at their house, they might expect you to reimburse them. Then tell your friends who are babysitters to pack a dinner because the family you *used* to babysit for got angry at you for eating and don't want them blindsided if they agree to babysit for them.  


\*\*edit: and I mean *used to babysit for* means you should rethink your work relationship with the parents. Why are they that mad that you ate? Does that mean more issues down the road, where they don't tell you their rules and then get mad when you don't know about their rules?
NTA. I wouldn't babysit for them anymore.
NTA 

Uh… if a babysitter is there over a snack or meal time, the babysitter eats too. Frankly the babysitter is generally welcome to most snacks in the house if they’re hungry. 

I wouldn’t babysit for them again. That’s so weird.
Some families are like this. They have a hard time keeping reliable sitters. I would never go back. NTA dinner is usually included unless the tell you beforehand.
NTA. Never sit for them again. If I had a sitter that was at my home at meal time of course I provided it for sitter and kids. That is just common courtesy and since the sitter is actually feeding them the meal and supervising the meal they should be included.
NTA - that’s incredibly rude on their part. I wouldn’t babysit for them again.
NTA and I wouldn’t babysit for them again. Good babysitters are hard to find and you don’t mess that up by being stingy with food. 

My teen babysits and the families she babysits for are great to her. They stock her favorite snacks, they make sure to let her know she can eat what she wants, and one family usually brings her dessert home from whatever restaurant they go out to.
NTA. I mean, when you arrived for work without a packed dinner (that they didn't specify you needed) did they not expect you to have to eat at some point? This is incredibly bizarre and not the norm at all. Especially for a one off night.
NTA  I haven't baby sat for fifty years.   Maybe things have changed since  the mid '70s.     But when I babysat, any food in the fridge was fair game.  

They always said, *eat anything your want*, and that was from multiple  families .      

It shocks me to  think that the family would think you wouldn't have dinner along with the kids.     If the kids were to be fed before I  arrived I would  have been told and I would eat at home before I left to go to their house.
NTA. A family I babysitted for once did a McDonald's delivery for their kids, and they were kind enough to get something for me as well.
NTA. I babysat a lot as a kid, eating reasonable food is normal.
NTA I wouldn’t babysit for them again
I always feed people who work for or who are helping me at mealtimes. I was also always fed as a babysitter. Normal people do. The mom is cheap and rude. NTA
NTA

I get my babysitter a shit load of snacks and tell her have whatever you want besides (xyz if it’s something I need) because I need her to like babysitting for me lol
Assholes don’t babysit for them again….they are being rude!
NTA. They sound cheap and controlling. I would find better people to baby sit for. This is so petty and ridiculous.
NTA. If you weren't welcome to eat with the kids, they should have told you to bring your own food. I wouldn't work there again.
NTA - this is really bizarre. I always made sure our sitter for our older two kids had an assortment of her favorite snacks and she was always included in any meal plan we had. I’d hesitate to sit for this family again, simply because I wouldn’t want to be accused of stealing something over having a glass of water. Today’s climate is just… weird.
[removed]
The babysitter gets to eat with the kids, those parents sound extra special .

NTA
What miserable sods!

So you were supposed to go hungry? I wouldn't babysit for those ingrates if I was you. 

NTA
NTA. This is so weird. Even the people I dog sat for would tell me to eat whatever was in their house.
NTA - I wouldn’t babysit for them again
NTA. Whenever I have someone at my home to watch my kids, I tell them they’re free to have whatever they want if they’re so inclined. Free range of any snacks, beverages, meals, etc.
NTA. If you’re there at dinner time, it’s totally normal to expect to get dinner. I suggest, as others have, that you not babysit for them again.
NTA

These are terrible people. I would cross them off your client list.
NTA. I don’t think the rules have changed, right? Those people are kind of weirdos because what the actual fuck are they talking about? Of course you’d eat if you’re making food or ordering food. It’s crazy they think you wouldn’t eat. Have they never used a sitter before? Why are they under the impression they are in the right? 

You don’t take a sack lunch to babysit, you eat what you feed the kids!
NTA. I’ve never heard of someone not feeding the babysitter when feeding their kids. I wouldn’t go back.
"Don't eat my familiy's food."

"Gotcha... it won't ever happen again."

Then, later "Oh, I was wondering if you'd be able to babysit...?"

"What part of 'it won't ever happen again' did you misunderstand?"

NTA
NTA. Charge them more next time. You'll need to order food.
They are the assholes! As a parent, I will find out the sitters favorite snacks and try to have them on hand. I want them to feel comfortable in my home. Telling you to starve is just rude.
Families I babysat for would buy my fave foods to have on hand. And I always encouraged my kids’ babysitters to help themselves to dinner. Weird that they would be mad. Plenty of other families need babysitters. I wouldn’t worry. NTA
NTA. Are you the first babysitter they've ever hired?

I would definitely feed the person looking after my kids whether that's expecting them to help themselves to things in my kitchen or having a serving of the meal that my kids are having. They're odd. Don't work for them again if you have the choice.
NTA

If the parents did not want to feed you, they should have expressed that from the beginning. In your shoes, I would refuse to babysit for them in the future. I'm hoping they still paid you (and not deducted the price of what you ate from your wages).
NTA

I’ve babysat before a lot and this is perfectly reasonable. I can’t imagine parents so cheap they are begrudging you two pieces of pizza and a breadstick. You weren’t keeping food out of the mouth of the kids, by any means. They are very strange and rude.
I don't have kids. Or tbh babysat ever. But I thought it was common decency to offer food to a babysitter. Like who would leave the house for an extended period of time around dinner and only expect the kids to eat. Especially if you ordered pizza and a side. Like btw we ordered this meal that's too big for out kids to eat and there's gonna be loads of left overs but don't eat any!!!
Basic human politeness to offer food to a guest when you are eating yourself. This is insane.
NTA These people are delusional and cruel, frankly. Honestly, it’s also classless.
NTA. They didn't make their expectations clear in advance. If you babysit for them again, increase your rates. People need to learn to not treat the babysitter like garbage or take them for granted.
NTA 
Whenever my kids are babysat I buy extra snacks, chocolate, Crisps and fizzy drink for the babysitter to enjoy. I would absolutely expect you to have some pizza with them. 

I find it unusual that they had a problem with it.
NTA! The parents I babysit for always leave extra pizza for me or set a space for me at the dinner table so I can also eat once the kids go to bed.
NTA that’s insanity that they said that.
I have always understood that babysitters are permitted to eat whatever is served to the children for the children's meals so that the babysitter can eat with the children. I suppose this is an issue of making it clear to your clients what your terms are when you enter into the arrangement with them, but since what you did is normal for babysitters, I think it would be fine after the fact to say, "I'm sorry, I didn't realize that you were not aware that it is expected the parents will provide dinner for the sitter." Or the other way you can phrase it is "My rate is $25 per hour if you are providing me with dinner and $35 per hour if you expect me to bring my own food." Or, just don't babysit for these people again. 

I think the main problem is if the family treats you like "please don't eat our family's food" then it's acting like you're "the help." if you see what I mean. Like you're lesser. It contradicts the sense of authority you want the kids to feel the babysitter has, so that the children will obey appropriate instructions so the sitter can keep them safe.
Don't work for them and make sure to share the story with as many other babysitters as you can.

The babysitter network is a thing and these folks deserve to be on everyone's shit list.
It's hard to get a babysitter and then you get these people with more money than brains. A simple explanation is all you give: 


*"It's standard here in the US to include the babysitter in meals and drinks and should be mentioned beforehand if you are deviating from that."*
Anyone I read this at first as "AITA for eating the children I babysit for"
If you are babysitting at their house during lunch and or dinnertime it would seems normal to me to eat there. How and what can be discussed. But to just let you babysit them and get mad you ate something is really weird.

If they don't want to pay for your food they should have told you to bring your own food. Even though that is still a bit weird...
NTA never go back there and tell everyone you know about how much they suck.
NTA. I'd have assumed the same. I haven't babysat in over 40 years since I'm older now. I remember being an all-day babysitter while parents were at work, and I was expected to make lunch for their 5-year-old. So I ate lunch too. The parents didn't speak to me directly but the next time I was there, the 5-year-old informed me, "Mom says you should be eating your own food." I was quite surprised since every other babysitting gig I had ever had had been, "help yourself to food." 

In retrospect, I guess it's good to clarify these things in advance. But not letting you have a slice or two of pizza when you're in charge of ordering it for the kids seems pretty stingy.
NTA. Don’t go back there
NTA - this is cheap on their behalf.
NTA

They’re being weird, don’t babysit for them again.
NTA. I'm confused and disappointed when the babysitter DOESN'T eat when she watches my kid.
NTA that’s really weird on their part. Don’t babysit for them again
NTA. They’re being ridiculous. Do not work for them again.
NTA. Don’t babysit for them again. If they ask why you are declining feel free to tell them they just aren’t inline with common courtesy for babysitters. When we had sitters for our kids (which wasn’t common) I always told them they were welcome to snacks in the fridge and if we orders dinner for kids, they were included.
Hardcore NTA. That blows my mind they’d make a stink about it. OP, I’m glad the pizza was delicious.
NTA and they're tacky and rude. If they expect you to serve the kids dinner, it's polite to allow you to eat as well. And it's what would generally be expected. 

If they wanted you to not eat, they should have made that explicitly clear. I would never babysit for them again.
NTA.

I have literally bought food and snacks for my sitters specifically. And also had families do it for me as well. Like you said, as long as it’s within reason. Don’t go into someone house and eat everything in sight, but literally, if I had a sitter, they are welcome to my fridge, my cupboards, grab themselves a snack, a drink chill and watch a movie, whether with the kids, or after they are asleep. As long as you are doing your job, which is caring for the kids, free food is one of the perks of the job.
I’ve only babysat ONCE in my life. Long story: I was about 28 and was in my radiology residency (MD) when one of my supervising doctors had their sitter fall through at the last minute. Stupid me, I volunteered … they were 9 and 11. Should have been easy, but they were unholy terrors. Anyway, the deal was something like $10/hr for 3 hrs with pizza delivery thrown in. I was certainly expected to eat, which I did. The parents called once during the evening and the kids were absolutely out of control screaming and running ON THE COUNTERTOPS, and I couldn’t stop both of them at once. When they got home they tossed me $60 for 2.5 hours (they came home early since it was obviously a disaster), and couldn’t stop apologizing to me for about a week.

EDIT: adding judgment NTA
This is an easy one. You are running a business and can set you own policies for how you conduct your business:

"I apologize for not spelling it out when we discussed compensation. Let this serve as your official notice that I require dinner as well as my hourly rate if my babysitting time will involve a meal"

If they have a problem with that, let them hire someone else 

They are weird for making a deal about $3 worth of pizza. You are NTA
NTA, in all the years I’ve babysat I’ve always been allowed to eat with the kids. In fact usually it’s along the lines of “please make yourself at home, help yourself to anything, enjoy dinner and there’s ice cream for desert if you want it.”
Good grief!!! NTA! Of course you should eat pizza with the kids!
One of my regular families kept my favorite salad dressing in the fridge, and bought my favorite soda! I would dump these people. That’s just weird.
Is the couple Scandanavian by chance? 
This is reminding me of this post a while back about how some  of them have habits of not sharing food with guests. 
https://www.reddit.com/r/stupidpol/comments/v16g8n/can_anyone_explain_to_me_this_scandinavians_dont/
NTA

That's where you fire them as a client. You are a babysitter, not a maid or servant. It's reasonable to be fed when your kids eat.
OP, I have babysat for hundreds of families and have never been told I cannot eat their food. On the contrary, families always tell me “please eat whatever you like.” 

The parents of the boys are being unreasonable...I suggest you don’t go back there.
Bring a happy meal.  Watch the kids freak out cause you got a toy and they didn't.
They're also setting a terrible example for their boys. "Remember, kids, the hired help doesn't get to eat with you."
When my kids were young I always told the babysitter to eat anything they wanted. It honestly made me happy when I noticed extra food had been eaten. It made me feel like they felt comfortable in my house.
probably expected op to bring a bagged meal
We’ve got kids now and if we do something like order pizza, we welcome the baby sitter taking part. We also say they can help themselves to some of our food, but they RARELY take us up on that.
>NTA Cross them off your list

I've learned this lesson the hard way. When you need the money, it's hard to turn down clients. But these types of clients just aren't worth it. They'll likely end up costing you money in the long run.
As a parent, I'm cringing.  Do you know how hard it is to find a good babysitter?  I'll happily cook dinner for the babysitter or give her pizza because having a reliable babysitter your kid likes is worth everything. Certainly, what, $10 worth of pizza, tops?
>They were watching my children. 

This right here.

I'm sure the babysitter is getting paid well, but that's incredibly petty given the situation
why would you not want the person responsible for your children to be fed
Literally. We treat our cat-sitter better than this!

What the actual F is this lol. NTA.
Yeah this is unreasonable. Very likely they were pissed about the hourly rate, spent their date complaining about it and saying things like “if she tries to eat that pizza on top of what we’re paying her there’ll be hell to pay”. They were already looking for something to bitch about.
"Unfortunately I've decided to work for a family that provides me a meal that night." No matter what night they ask about.
EXACTLY! They are trusting their children's safety to this person and then want to be a jerk  to them? Nah!
My aunt watches my husband and I’s dog once a week and stayed with him during our vacation recently, and we treated her better than this. She had full access to everything in the kitchen, a deep-cleaned house, and clean sheets to sleep on that we put on the bed at 4 am before leaving for the airport. I even got some specific items from the store just for her for meals and snacks.
if i trust you enough to watch my kids the least of my concerns is what food you eat when youre there
> NTA Cross them off your list

**Fire. This. Client!**

I have to do the same with batshit clients as a freelance designer. I promise they are more liability than asset. Sure, you may get gigs from them sometimes, but if you set them off with some minor thing (and it WILL happen with these types) they will slander you from here to kingdom come and cost you better clients in the future!
They are incredibly rude, the way they said it to OP was so awful. I had such crippling social anxiety when I was that age that if someone had said to me “Why did you eat the kids dinner” and “I didn’t expect to have to feed you dinner as well, don’t eat my family’s food” I would have been so mortified and upset I’d have probably never babysat again for anyone and those words would be burned into my brain for years. What awful people.
Agreed, I have always nannied and babysat - the expectation was always that I was welcome to whatever food was being served / at the home. I even was an au pair in Spain and never felt limited as to the food I consumed at the home. 

NTA, the parents are inconsiderate and rude.
At that age the snacks and being treated like part of the family was part of the fun of the job.  These people are duds; dump them!  NTA
This. I can’t imagine not feeding my babysitter when I had one. I used to tell my (over 21) sitter to help herself to a glass of wine when the little was asleep.
Yeah I babysat as a teen and never had a family not offer food. Now as a mom when I bring in a babysitter it's usually after my daughter is in bed but I always ask "have you eaten anything" and offer dinner anyway. Food in the fridge and in the pantry cabinet are fair game for people I'm trusting to watch my kid so I can go enjoy the night out!
Also a parent and same here. Like, WTF?

How can you be so rude against someone who is in your house with your kids.

I would avoid this family like the plague.
I bet you anything this fucking couple also didn't feed the photographer at their wedding.
Man reading all this brings back horrible babysitter memories for me. I used to babysit this 10 year old girl the summer before high school. I got paid 14 dollars a day for 10 hours and was expected to clean and tutor her in math and reading. I asked for 15 dollars a day but her mom said no because I ate their food. I said ibwill gladly pack a lunch for that extra dollar and she still refused. My mom even drove me back and forth.  This was 2005 and now as an adult I realize how cheap she got me even for 2005 money. $1.40 and hour was unacceptable. 

The girl also tried to smother me with a pillow once. And she blamed me for her parents divorce once which was really weird because I met them after her parents were already divorced and I had never met her father. 

As an adult I'm actually really disappointed with all the adults around me.

NTA OP, and I would suggest not babysitting them again.
You always feed the babysitter! It’s SOP.
Yeah, and how didn't they "expect to feed her"? As opposed to what, expecting her to babysit for hours and starve? And would they die because two slices of pizza and a breadstick? Jesus. She should have told them slavery ended two centuries ago.
There were leftovers!
Also, to me it is normal to feed the one looking after your kids. Provide them with dinner and snacks. That is the least you can do (besides paying them). It’s mostly young people trying to earn some extra cash. A bag of crisps/ chips and some soda or a pizza is not that expensive when you can pay for a babysitter.
NTA- Parents always expected me to eat if I was to feed their children (I usually cooked the dinner) around 5 or 6pm. Maybe it is because babysitters are paid much compared to what I got when I babysat, but it is not uncommon. As long as the children had their fill, you should not go hungry. Did they expect you to pack a dinner?
OP, I was a nanny for years, and I've hired nannies for years. You absolutely get to eat at people's houses. This family is strange. I'd never work for them again. Seriously, there's something wrong with them.
As a parent myself I absolutely would have expected you to eat literally anything in my house and would encourage you to do so. You want pizza with the kids, please enjoy. You want to make yourself a sandwich, please do. If for whatever reason you have specific dietary needs and can't eat anything I've got. I will door dash you in a meal of your choice. If after the kids go to bed you fall asleep on the couch waiting for us, blankets are literally within arms reach anywhere in my living room. Please make yourself comfortable. Like this sounds insane to me to even say anything about. As long as my kids are happy and well taken care of and you're not drinking or bringing over company, make yourself at home I say.
How thoughtful of those parents! Truly, that is how it should be, NTA.

I babysat a lot in my teen years for dozens of families and every single one made a point of offering up their fridge and pantry.
I won't even go over there. I'd just send them the link to this thread.
As a parent if for some reason there's food in the house that I don't want eaten (example, saving for specific occasion or kids school snacks, etc) I'll mention what it is and where it is, and then follow up with an explaination as to why, and a help yourself to anything else. If I was planning to order takeout, I would make sure I let the babysitter know what was ordered and that they could have some or scrounge my kitchen for something different if they preferred. 

As a babysitter, I would consider it the norm that if you're babysitting over a meal that you'd get a share. I don't assume snacks are available because a lot of the people I babysat for were definitely living paycheck to paycheck, and often brought my own. 

So no, you are absolutely NOT the ahole. Maybe if you're babysitting for a new client in the future, you could ask? Just say you've had some clients that expect you to eat with their kids and some that don't, so you want things to be clear to avoid issues??
The ones you never babysit for again.
I thought this very thing, sitter gets blamed for something that comes up missing, kid gets a bruise etc. I would avoid this family completely going forward.
I agree. People that are that petty and small minded over a slice of pizza will look for other ways to find trouble.
This! And please advise any of your friends and neighbors of your experience with them. Or at least talk about it with friends, loudly, near the town gossip. So no one else sits for them either.
I agree. People that are that petty and small minded over a slice of pizza will look for other ways to find trouble.
“How you do one thing is how you do everything”
I didn’t know Marquis Vincent de Gramont had Reddit
I’d be praying they called again, just so I could let them down at the last minute on their big night out plans.

And I’d stay in and order a whole cheese pizza, just for me. 

And cackle as I thought of them raging around trying to find a replacement sitter.
Yeah who the hell has a problem feeding people? This is so bizarre
Blacklist these people too, if they're like this over a couple slices of pizza imagine the pain in the arse they'll be further down the line 

OP NTA
Thank you for the laugh! I laughed so hard I snorted  and scared my cat! 

It made me think of an old Dan Aykroyd movie called Coneheads where they are a family of aliens adjusting to earth. It’s SO STUPID but funny and this situation could easily be in that movie!!! 

Seriously though, I feel irrationally furious at these people on behalf of OP.
Never babysit for them again.  Period. They are not worthy of your services and the food conversation will just rile them up as they're obviously entitled AHs.
>Never babysit for them again unless they agree to feed you.

Neh, just don't babysit for them again. They made it awkward and weird, and "unless you feed me" is not an entitlement you want to fight for.
Exactly! As a mom, if my daughter would have told me that, I would have called those AH and chewed them out!
If they get mad about a few dollars worth of pizza they already paid for, you're likely already going to have trouble getting paid properly
Exactly. I guess I haven't baby in a few years, but every family I ever babysat for encouraged me to make myself at home.
You are not alone in your misread.
Same tbh
Yep.
Same here.  Had some legit concerns about those children at first.
I did this, too. It's why I originally clicked on the post.
Also, what else was OP meant to do? Bring their own dinner? And then get the whole “what are you eating? How come we didn’t get that?” from the kids? What if her food was better? Would she get in trouble for not sharing/sharing without permission? What a load of rubbish.
I went over that a few times in my mind of what would've been appropriate to do. I arrived at 5:30 so I guess I could've eaten beforehand? I guess I'm not a parent but I would feel weirder about a sitter getting out my pots and pans than if she helped herself to whatever the kids were eating.
Pettier revenge: bring an entire delicious cake for your dinner and refuse to let the kids eat any then report back to the parents bewildered about how weird it was when the kids tried to eat your dinner. Kind of a dick move to the kids but I guess it's what their parents want for them, right?
>What would be slightly different: If they gave you $40 to take everyone to McDonald's, I'm not sure that I would assume that the $40 covered your food.

If u can't feed a  7 year old and a 10 year old with double digit change leftover from 40USD for an adult to at least grab a McChicken and a soda I assume u have bigger issues than ur budget
I had parents send me home with snacks because I didn’t grab something out of the pantry after the kids were asleep. 😂
Did they expect Op to take a dinner break and leave the kids unsupervised to run to McD's? Morons.
Yeah I babysat in the 90’s and was told to help myself to any snacks within reason, and if they ordered pizza I was encouraged to have a slice. And I say the same thing to anyone watching my kids.
Nope, same culture
Before Swedes are brought up, the Nanny gets food here too.
Are there cultures that don't feed the guests? Wow, that's rude.
Our sitter doesn't usually eat the pizza we offer, but I ALWAYS say "we'll have pizza at the house that you are welcome to" and set out 3 plates (we have 2 kits) so she knows she is welcome to anything. This is such an odd response from the parents.

NTA
Ew. Yeah you are so right!
When I got married my photographer put in the contract that she would get a plate at dinner and I was like "why is this even in here?? Of course you're getting food?" I was shocked to find out that many people didn't think they should feed the vendors they hire.

Then when I emailed the DJ/Photo booth company to ask how many employees they were bringing and if they wanted chicken, steak, or veggie they were really touched that I was both planning on feeding them AND not expecting them to eat the cheapest plate without giving them an option.

I'm sorry just what the actual fuck. These people are spending the entire day with you to help make sure one of the most memorable days of your life is amazing. I know they're being paid but honestly I can't imagine how awful I would feel watching them pull out a pb&j and a bag of chips or something while the rest of the room gets a steak dinner. In the grand scheme of how much weddings cost, feeding 4 more people is a drop in the bucket. We even made sure to order extra sheet cake because we wanted all of the venue staff to be able to have some, too. It was maybe an extra $30 and completely worth it.
Okay yeah, for real, this is something I hadn't seen mentioned yet but has me boiling... like, how they gonna *other* OP so entirely?? OP is somehow not good enough to share a meal with their children? In what culture would anyone have a meal and expect anyone involved in the caretaking of the home/children not to partake? (I know the answer but to avoid any political debate, I'll just leave the question open ended.) Anyway, yeah, absolutely absurd, dehumanizing, and unfair treatment for someone you entrusted your children with. Wtf.
Shit, even when I'm working (construction) in someone's house I'm surprised how many people tell me "help yourself to anything in the fridge if you get hungry".
Yeah that tends to take more than one baby sit, it is great when the guardian of your kids gets on board.
It astounds me how cheap people can be when they are entrusting their children to a someone else's care. You can't pick your car up from the mechanic until you pay the bill in full but these people nickel and dime people caring for their children. What the heck?
Penny pinching above else, to the point of being unable to see any potential long term benefits of spending a few dollars on babysitter food?
It's like when I'll see people looking for $200/week full time nannys. Do you really want to trust your kids to someone who would work for $5/hour?
Yeah that would have crushed me when I was a teenage babysitter. I used to essentially short term nanny the kids up the street from me when I was 18 over the summer, weeks they didn't have summer camps and such lined up. The parents always told me I could eat whatever I wanted, and they had a garage refrigerator they kept abundantly stocked with sodas, popsicles, and tons of snacks. I was there weekdays from 8am - 6pm while the parents worked, so I cooked lunch and dinner for the kids, and always made myself a plate of whatever I cooked. Sometimes they'd give me spending money to drive the kids over to a McDonald's with a play place or order some pizzas and they'd make it clear they gave me enough for me to get a meal too. 

I cannot believe they're mad over a couple slices of pizza! That's truly ridiculous, and if they really had rules like that they should have told OP upfront that they were expected to bring a lunch/not have anything from the house.
Fastest way for a parent to burn a good sitter and potential nanny.

You came home late. Kids fed. Leftovers in fridge. House is clean. Toys put away. Kids are clean, brushed teeth, had baths. Sleeping soundly. 

Slight me about pizza? Fuck off! Don't call me anymore.
Me too!  I would’ve taken it a lot harder than OP did. What grown ass adults say that to their 20 yr old babysitter? 

Also, OP doesn’t say how long the babysitting job was, but I’ve been a babysitter for some long jobs, think 4 or 5 pm until well after midnight. Depending on how long the job was, the family might be even shittier to expect OP not to eat anything.
No joke! Utterly disgusted by those people!
I probably would have immediately started crying and then obsessed over it for days while feeling sick to my stomach. Yey undiagnosed social anxiety that I thought was normal!
Thankfully this seems uncommon judging by the responses. I cant imagine being this cheap towards the person responsible towards my kids. Hell my dad gave our sitter a ride home after each visit. We loved her. I couldnt imagine ever denying a sweet caring person food.
Same.

I'd never babysit for this family again over the way they said this.
Such a weird, awkward thing to say. I'm so confused how these people think, wtf. "Don't eat my family's food", get the fuck out of here man, you expect me to bring a lunchbox to babysit your kids while I order them pizza? Fuck off.
They could've explained they weren't supplying dinner for the babysitter, during time time, they should ask the sitter to eat beforehand. Or, I don't know, ask them to leave enough left overs for the parent's "mid-night" snack.

And if they didn't communicate that, it should be something brought up during the request to babysit again. 

Apparently these parents are entitled, assuming, as well as inconsiderate. This person gave you a kid-free night, have some f-ing grace.
Agree, it was so rude! Even if that’s what they (for some reason) felt, what did they accomplish by saying it out loud!? Did they get their 2 slices of pizza back? No, they wanted to shame OP. They could just have paid and not ask OP to babysit again, if this was a problem for them. Because that’s the outcome anyway: OP will most likely avoid these rude and petty people.
100% nail on the head. It’s stressful being the young caretaker in someone else’s home and not knowing what’s off limits, even worse. They’re really making a mountain of a molehill over the dumbest thing- and something they should be providing in the first place! So, so rude!
This exactly!! 30 year old me says to say something though. “Oh, didn’t realize I was supposed to starve the whole time. This is my notice that I will not be babysitting anymore”
The terms of the job are to stay in the house and not leave, so they should provide food. If not then you would take a lunch and leave for half an hour.
Same
Yeah this is beyond rude and bizarre. Good luck to them ever finding a consistent babysitter again! 
I babysat all throughout my teens and not only did the families expect me to also eat dinner, they would also often encourage me to order myself something too. And to help myself to the kids’ snacks
That makes this even worse. I could maybe understand if you finished the pizza while the kids were asking for more food but everyone was feed and there were slices left. 

Avoid that couple
You did nothing wrong at all. Don’t babysit for them anymore. NTA
There was still pizza left over and they were annoyed that you ***gasp*** ate 2 slices?! 

NTA, it’s ridiculous and petty to make those comments over 2 slices of pizza, the kids were clearly full so it’s not like you were taking food away from them. What next, they complain about you using their water if you needed a drink? 

Every time I’ve ever babysat I’ve been told “help yourself to food or drinks, the snacks are in that cupboard”, most people if left money to get a pizza in that situation would presume it would be okay to have a slice or two with the kids, it’s not like you ordered yourself a whole large pizza with all the toppings to yourself.
I baby sat for over twenty years. Only had one weird family like this. They are rude and treating you like less than. Don't work for them again unless they paid well but the one I had like that were penny pinchers wanting me to arrive early so they could finish getting ready but not pay me for it because they were there. I was experienced enough to advocate for myself but if it had been earlier in my career I would have probably just ditched them
NTA 

Wow… the parents are.

Anytime I watched children, I was told “help yourself” bc I was also feeding the children.
When I hired sitters, I made sure they had their own snacks, drinks, & food  if they were going to fix a meal for the kids.

You did nothing wrong. I wouldn’t work for them again.
NTA. I would second the suggestion of being cautious of taking job offers from them. You didn’t eat the whole pizza and left the kids hungry. And it sounds like you were being polite about getting to try it.  People like this can be weird and I wouldn’t put it past them if they docked you pay in the future for something like that.
As a former babysitter, this is reason enough for you to be *their former babysitter.* how dare they think that you wouldn’t eat dinner at dinner time??
When I baby sat long ago-much like you, two boys 7 and 10- the parents ordered a pizza every time. I was expected to eat too. Heck, several times they asked if I wanted to take the leftovers (since I was a college kid).

I would be uncomfortable sitting for that family again. If parents are expecting you to work through the time you'd have to make dinner for yourself, feeding the babysitter should be the assumption.
NTA I have never not had a meal I served babysitting. The thought of starving while watching kids eat is weird. I wouldn't babysit for them ever again.
NTA They are AHs, cut them loose
Were they not expecting you to eat or to order a whole pizza for yourself? NTA.
NTA.  When I babysat, I definitely ate food there, same if I was housesitting for someone.  I haven't done either in a long time but if I had someone babysitting my child I would fully expect them to eat my food, especially if I had a pizza ordered.

If I were you I would avoid that family and not work for them again.
If they contacted you through anywhere that you can leave a review, please leave one. If you don't want the babysitter to eat with the kids you inform them beforehand so they can bring their own food or just decline to babysit for you. 

I always thought that if you've got a babysitter they eat with the kids and you make sure there are plenty of snacks for when the little ones are in bed.
Did you show up with a second shift lunch pail? The fuck did they think you were gonna eat while you were there? I would never do this to a babysitter.
You're NTA. If they approach you again to babysit, let them know that you are not comfortable doing so and then block them.
Nope. Feeding the sitter at dinner time is expected. Those people are incredibly out of touch with the real world. I’d cross them off the list.
NTA. Leftovers definitely show the kids had plenty. You also need to eat unless they planned for you to starve. Probably don't babsit for them again and if you know any other babysitters in the area, warn them about this family.
NTA OP, I’ve been a babysitter and nanny in almost every capacity for nearly 30 years. It’s always been a practical expectation that I sit down and eat with the kids at mealtime. It’s absolutely normal for you to model good manners and monitor what the kids eat and how much. Heck, even as a preschool teacher at a private school we were expected to have a “family style” meal for bonding and conversations.
They are nutters, you tasted food which children eat which is entirely sensible and normal.   Its safer that you check the food is fine to eat, total nonsense to complain about.  Ive worked catering retail and production, never presume its all perfect every time. 
   Dont go back there imo unless they are paying double for the privilege
Fuck 'em find a new family to work for because that's crazy. You're in their house watching their kids but they can't offer you food? 

Hell, we tell the pet sitter they're welcome to anything in the fridge. 

It's not easy to find good sitters, they're really shooting themselves in the foot by being so cheap.
NTA - If the parents didn't want you to eat any of it, it's their responsibility to be sure to tell you that. I would suggest passing on jobs with this couple offered again. They seem very particular and ill informed, it's an expectation that if there is food served (either heated by the sitter to serve, or ordered) the sitter is allowed, and expected to take a portion. Who orders a large pizza for 2 small children and doesn't expect the sitter to have some. Especially if the sitter is expected to be there for more than 4 hours. 🙄

Edit: errors errors everywhere
 😓
Nta all the times I’ve baby sat it was always offered to me. In fact when I used to watch my mom’s 3rd husband’s sister’s kids I would actually get a text or call from my ex aunt asking what I wanted from Perkins. ( they liked to get drunk on certain weekends) 

Yeah I agree with the others don’t bother babysitting for these ppl again. I just feel it’s proper etiquette to do that for someone or let you know in advance on the food situation.
Don’t baby sit for assholes. Your services are too valuable if you are reliable!
This is their complaint, we didn't expect to have to feed you as well as pay you. Meaning it's bad enough we have to pay you to babysit our kids. These people clearly don't understand the whole babysitting setup. I personally would never babysit for them again.
Please send them this thread and let them know you cannot watch their kids anymore! Making food plans around watching two kids is who aren’t even yours is a weird expectation. They want you to starve and watch their kids while they eat?? No way! They need a reality check
I don't have kids. But I remember being a kid and having babysitters. If my brother and I ate, so did they.
I always thought it was the norm too. In the 90s they used to always joke about it on shows. I mean come on if she was thirsty were they going to not let her have water?
>Also, to me it is normal to feed the one looking after your kids. 

100%. Hell I always offer a meal and a cocktail to friends and family members who I ask to sit on the couch with my dog for four hours when my wife and I want to have longer date nights. You can't have people working in your home around meal time and not offer to feed them.
Right?! It’s not like she fired up their steaks or something.
Imagine complaining that you inadvertently bought a 20 year old two pieces of pizza
I think the nanny family used my daughter to clean up their children diets, no pizza, no macaroni and cheese, no process nuggets, it was grilled chicken/ fish, rice or potato, several vegetables and fruits. Either way it was very kind of the family to consider my what my daughter could and couldn’t eat.
I think that is it - if you are going to trust me with your children, then you should be offering me your fridge and pantry, because you either trust me or you do not and we will need to eat.
Agreed, she should just send the link lol.

Somehow I think these parents know they’re rude and cheap though, and just bullying OP because they’re assholes.
No, send them a link to their state’s labor laws. In my state I am entitled to a meal break after five hours of work. I’m entitled to a paid meal break if I’m required to stay on-duty.
Totally this! Our babysitters are welcome to pretty much anything and I make that clear, and show them where the snacks and drinks are. One of my kids has autism so I meal prep a lot since he’s a picky eater, so I will let them know about those few items specifically.  I always put a note on them in the fridge anyways because my husband forgets what specifically is for our son and will eat it when he’s starving and comes home from work. I’ve never had an issue at all with sitters and food. So ridiculous.
Yup
I absolutely agree with you. It’s a couple slices of pizza this time. It will be something else next time.
ALSO - if they had such a problem with it just don’t have her back to sit. DON’T FUCKING MAKE SOMEONE UNCOMFORTABLE FOR EATING. 

I would have put my fingers down my throat and thrown up on their carpet and left.
Every girl who has babysat for me has a horror story.  People are horrific and treat girls like slaves. Its disgusting.  I call moms out on it in forums CONSTANTLY.
Agreed - next they’ll be accusing OP of stealing jewelry or something
And let your friends know if any of them babysit.
Do babysit but charge $75/day for meal expenses lmao
If a babysitter consumes the children they are babysitting, this usually leads to a negative performance review.
That's such a good point! I bet these parents would also be the type to get mad if OP brought their own food but not enough to share with the kids 🤦‍♀️
Omg yes. I once did an unpaid internship at a private larger daycare and I had to bring my own food. I was supposed to eat that while the kids ate whatever was on the menu and there were endless questions if they can have what I have. I usually had a bread roll with cheese and a large amount of cut vegetables and fruit and I regularly had to tell the kids that sorry, this is my only food until dinner. 

They usually had large amount of leftovers that went to the trash. I once said to the daycare leader that this is really wasteful but she explained to me that they get no money from my uni for my lunch. OK that explains some part but if there's plenty left that ends *in the trash* anyway the whole thing just was so petty. I wrote it in my report that they waste food as an improvement point. 

OP, you're NTA. I had only hired a baby sitter for one time period and even though she wasn't expected to feed my kid, I was absolutely fine with her Sharing snacks with my kid that I had bought or take 1-2 slices of the cake I baked  and told her to drink as much coffee or other beverages she wants.
You did nothing wrong. This couple is kooky.

Don't sit for them again.

Nta.
I would never in a million years think that anyone who is in my house at the same time as a fresh pizza couldn't have a slice. Friends, babysitter, whatever, if a pizza is ordered, everyone gets a piece.
I mean, as a parent my instinct is to make sure kids and guests get fed. You are someone else's child, so the "parent" thing to do is look after you too if that makes sense.

Just don't work for these people again. If they're weird about this, they'll be weird about other stuff.
Don’t babysit for these people again. You did nothing wrong. And advise any other sitters you know that this family are not worth the hassle. They expect you to either starve for hours while watching their children or bring your own food which can have its own hassles. What if the kids want what you have? Then they might turn into little nightmares when you decline. Yeah just not worth the hassle.
If you did use the pots and pans and even washed them, they probably would have complained about that too.
I am sorry I cant be there at 5:30. I need to order myself a pizza before I come over so you will have to delay your plans to go out and I will be there at 6:30.
If they are mad over a few dollars of pizza they already paid for can you really trust them to treat/pay you right?
Parent here. I would expect you to have some pizza. NTA.
If they had expectations for you to bring your own food, they should have clearly said that. I babysat for years in hs and never once had a crazy parent tell me I couldn't eat. 


I didn't show up on an empty stomach, but I'd spend 5+ hours there and of course needed to eat something while there. Most of the time the parents would tell me to help myself to anything I wanted in the fridge.. 


I feel like more people these days feel they're entitled to any fucking weird behaviour just because some vocal minority online probably validates them 🙄🙄. Pre-social media there were just clearer social norms and if you stood out, you were called out for it instead of selectively being validated by another psycho online.
It's the norm to let the babysitter have food provided there is enough. If they don't really want to share, they should communicate that to you. Often it's the case the kids food just isn't interesting so you might bring your own. NTA
Listen, this isn't even a babysitting thing. If you order a pizza and leave it with a group of people, consider it EATEN. If they wanted some they should have ordered another one or set aside what they wanted for later. Any pizza left out is FAIR GAME. That's the rule of pizza.
Pettiest revenge: next time you agree to babysit for them, don't show up and block their calls forever.
I've had that happen too 😂

"Do you like those granola bars? The kids don't like them too much these days, take a couple with you!" 

This is also me as a parent now, if I have a babysitter and they do a good job and the kids like them, I couldn't care less if they finish off a bag of my favorite chips or eat a whole pint of ice cream out of the freezer!
That is the clincher, did you expect them to have a separate dinner break whilst watching your children?  Just a 30 minute un-watched period?
[removed]
If even a Swede would offer the babysitter pizza, then there's surely nowhere on earth that wouldn't.
Some people are selfish, arrogant and inhospitable. I could see this happening in Canada or the United States, but the majority of people in those country aren't like that.

Some people just suck.
The venue staff always get left out when it’s time for food or tips, so that’s super sweet of you.
I don't want to make an unfair, negative assumption about innocent children, *however*, based on the quality of parenting in this scenario, I'm afraid they will become self-centred, misogynistic adults. If OP is a woman, that's even worse. It's sending the message that female employees should dine seperately.
You can get a new child within like 10 months, for a car you'd have to work much more.
I frequently see child care job listings offering less than minimum wage, I can't help but think, do you really want someone willing to work for so little to have your kids?
It's because there are no consequences for doing it once. The mechanic can deny you your car until you pay up. The babysitter can't hold your kids hostage, so what can they do if you stiff them, un-care for your kids? Then these parents will just make up a shitty review as an excuse, and never call them again. And then repeat with a different babysitter next time.
As a nanny those posts drive me so crazy. Most of the time they think a nanny is just a full-time babysitter and are really disrespectful. 

Babysitting = keeping your kids alive. 

Nannying = enriching your kids lives and helping them develop mentally and emotionally. 

One is much more intensive in terms of what’s being invested into the kids. And most nannies I know have some kind of childhood education degree or experience in those areas.
[deleted]
That rule should be discussed prior to hiring the bitter/nanny. So they can bring themselves snacks and food. But honestly, it's damn rude to expect a sitter to serve food while attending the children and not partake of the repast themselves.

Very odd family, with odd rules, OP should let other sitters she knows in the area know about this in case they try docking pay on someone, or use it as an excuse to not pay or tip. 😓
Nailed it.

How fucking cheap can you be?
I ended up being referred for cognitive behavioural therapy after I got diagnosed and my psychologist gave me a book (Overcoming Social Anxiety and Shyness - A Self Help guide using Cognitive Behavioural Techniques by Gillian Butler) to read in between sessions which was actually very helpful and followed a similar structure to the work that we were doing. I found a pdf copy [here,](https://www.scribd.com/document/263455956/Gillian-Butler-Overcoming-Social-Anxiety-Shyness) in case you (or anyone else who might be struggling and sees this) might find it helpful too ❤️
I love being closer to thirty than twenty. I like myself and stand up for myself so much more.
I agree. Don’t babysit for them again. That’s some weird af behavior from the parents. I was always told to feel free to eat whatever I wanted while I was babysitting.
Imagine if OP  brings their own food that looks better than the pizza, now the parents have to deal with pissed off kids who had to watch the baby sitter eat a better meal. It is never done this way.

NTA, dont work for these people again.
NEVER sit for them again!
I hope that they didn't try to dock your pay over this!  Why order such a large pizza if it isn't for you as well as the children?
Agree. Don't sit for them anymore.
I agree with the avoid that couple sentiments. This sounds like some classist BS.
You’re 100% right. There’s a high chance that leftover pizza is going in the bin in a few hours.
No, there is no "understanding" to be had.  Do not gaslight.

She was babysitting and the parents got them a pizza to eat.  Zero confusion here.

If they wanted to be weirdo assholes to the babysitter, they should have made it clear that the pizza was for the kids only and she was not allowed to eat.  But if they did that, OP would have gotten the red flag sooner and could have bailed out.

These parents are weirdos.
100%

stop babysitting for them
Seriously this is giving “the help doesn’t eat OUR food”
This. I would stay away from them. This is very weird behaviour! Sooner or later there will be other unreasonable things you get blamed for. Its rather normal to provide snacks for the babysitter btw. As long as the kids are fed and happy and you didn't deplete all their storaged foods you should be fine.
Agree 100%.  Avoid them.  Next thing you know, they will be stiffing you on your pay.  If they make a stink over a little pizza, anything could set them off.
These are the types of people to "report" OP for something innocuous done with the children. They're unreasonable and stupid, that's a dangerous combination.
> Every time I’ve ever babysat I’ve been told “help yourself to food or drinks, the snacks are in that cupboard”,

This is standard practice. Or should be. OP should never babysit for these people again if they're so selfish they can't offer her food while she's watching their kids.
Let's not forget the breadstick.
Especially if you are sitting over a mealtime and until parents returned.   

If OP had brought a meal from home I would not be surprised if the parents sooked about not sharing with the kids !!

NTA.
This post, or the parents involved really, is insane. We have always made plans for dinner which explicitly cater for our awesome babysitter too (eg there's pizza and garlic bread in the oven, or there's pasta sauce ready in the fridge and ravioli ready to go), and make clear where the snacks are.


We're paying for her to look after our kid, keep him in his routine (well kinda, were not breathing down her neck if he gets to bed a bit late, and we tend to make sure there's dessert). The kid's not high maintenance (though she babysit him as a baby, too, when he was) so once he's down for the night the sofa, wifi and tv are hers for the evening. It's not a hard gig with a single 5yo, but she's giving up her Friday or Saturday night so we can go out.


AU$25/hr (we insisted on upping it as she was waaaaay undercharging, we're frugal but won't save money by shorting people, let alone people we trust with our kid) and dinner's covered. Absolutely standard practice in Australia. What would be the point if she had to spend half her night's earnings ordering in her own dinner? It costs sweet fa to feed one more mouth for the night.
If we have a babysitter over dinner time and I order pizza, I order the babysitter their own large pizza with choice of toppings. Leftovers go home with them. And I pay they for the night (obviously), and they get to use our wifi and streaming services, and the one who doesn't drive I order an Uber home for. This is the way.
Right? I've always been given the go ahead to eat whatever when feeding kids, and in turn have given the go ahead for people babysitting mine? It's the standard, *normal* thing? NTA.
This had nothing to do with the pizza. They were gonna take a shot at her one way or the other. Some people do that shit to everyone they pay money to. If they lay cash in your hand for any reason they are gonna say something fucked up. It is a whole class of people. Mostly well off.

I worked an in house installing job. Completely Toxic people are about 10% of the planet by my conservative estimate. 

The girl should move on. It never gets better with these guys.
.......don't forget the breadstick she ate 😲 

🤔did they make you clock in /out    🤔getting a w-2 or 1099?
I was always told the same when I babysat, AND I now say the same to our dogsitters! It's just common courtesy!
Sure it has been a damn long time since I baby sat, but when I did I had full fridge and food privileges. If I was looking after two then takeaway was for three.
Really as a parent I would have asked what kind of pizza she liked and ordered a second one so she had her preference as well as the kids. 

I nannied for years and was always made welcome to snack or eat anything I could find or what the kids were having.
Shitheads like these are *always* cheap. Divvying the hour down to five minute increments, digging in the couch cushions to give you that nickel they owe you. They’re the most frustrating type of people to work for because they’re often not *technically* wrong, but it’s still so grating.
Agreed. I’ve babysat a few times and always been encouraged to take my fill from the fridge. Parents are weird arseholes.
Me too. They would leave food for all of us. Chips, cookies. Tell me to make a sandwich if I was hungry. Part of this is because-they might be late RETURNING. So it’s sort of a give and take on both sides.

I agree with avoiding them.
I would do it right now. Good babysitters are in high demand. If they don't like the idea of treating a babysitter like a human being, they don't deserve one. I would write them a text message RIGHT NOW telling them that after what happened yesterday, you had second thoughts about working with them and never contacting you again because you will block them after you send the message. Keep your message professional and move on hun. I'm sure you can find so many other parents to work for who would be outraged had you starved yourself while there was leftover food sitting untouched at the table. What assholes those parents are!
Probably not the case here given the kids ages (most grow out of it by the time they start school), but some kids just refuse to eat unless they see you eating the same thing and/or you have a bit. 

Incidentally, this was the only way my parents got me to eat my veggies as a kid. 😅
Yeah. It's not weird to eat a slice of pizza alongside the kids you are babysitting. Some kids might not eat if the adult isn't eating.
It's definitely the norm.
Exactly! Normally we don’t really have a lot of junk food in our house but when the babysitter comes we have enough for like 3 weeks. So she can choose what she wants. And I always ask her what she wants to eat and buy or order it. I want her to feel welcome and I want her to enjoy her evening. The moment she will dread going to us is the moment she might start saying no when we ask her. And I don’t want to have to find another babysitter when I already have the best one around!
That’s a really considerate example to set for their children too. Great parenting.
I taught my nanny kids how to eat veggies and Mom lost 50 lbs because the kids were all about veggies and fresh fruit. 

I do *not* feed kids chicken nuggets!
"Oh but see this is just babysitting, it's not a job"
labor law doesn't say you get food from the employer though, usually you buy or bring your own. it's common courtesy that says babysitters get to eat
Man and I'm just here thinking like, if OP is supposed to not eat any of the food and the kids asked why are they not eating or offered some (and most kids would offer, in my experience), what the hell is OP supposed to say? Sorry I can't eat it because your mom and dad are cheap?
I had a “friend” pay me 90 cents an hour years ago for babysitting two kids. She was not my friend after that! My bad for naively not setting a price ahead of time. On Facebook I recently saw her oldest was now old enough to start babysitting and was looking for jobs in the town group. It took everything I had in me not to make a comment telling her to ask for more money than her mom paid.
It took me a second to realise what you meant cause I read it as “every girl who has babysat for me has a horror story (about me)” lmao
They'll be looking for any excuse not to pay her or pay her less.

Stealing, eating food, using the toilet paper, etc.

Their reaction also signals it is not safe to be around these people.  You just don't know what they may say or do that affects OP in a bad way.

Odds are they will tell every parent they know not to use her because she stole food.

If they call for babysitting again, she tells them she gave it up and won't be babysitting any more in general.  No other details or communication.  That way they think she stopped, so they won't be encouraged to lie to others about her to sabotage her.
As online as teens are these days, I'm honestly surprised babysitters in a local area don't network so they can communicate bad clients and the like.
it's just bad for job security too.
So glad I live in a country where "unpaid internships" are a crime.
One time, I was walking out of a pizza place that had a bus stop right in front of it. There was a young guy standing there waiting for the bus and saw me exiting with two fresh pizzas. He jokingly asked if he could have a piece. But, under the joke, I could tell he really wanted one, even though it wasn't a serious request or expectation.

So, I said, "Yeah, definitely!" And popped the top box open. He was so surprised and happy. I could tell it made his day, and it made mine, too.

I'm not saying it to pat myself on the back or anything. It's not like I gave my whole dinner away to a starving man.

But, I thought of that fun little interaction and how cheap and effortless of a gesture that was, and these people can't even spare a few slices and a breadstick for their young babysitter who they asked to come over during dinnertime? There were even leftovers. Clearly, the kids had eaten enough. It's such a standard social convention. I can't imagine they we're paying her so well that a couple bucks worth of pizza was asking too much. Selfish people.
Isn't that the truth!!!  Imagine having friends over and a pizza your ordered arrived - could you really eat it in front of them without letting them have a slice or two?
Shit I've offered the guys doing my drywall food if there were there when I was eating. I wouldn't really expect them to accept, but it would feel so rude to be making food or eating around someone else without at least offering.

And this was a delivery pizza, not grandma's special chrismas ham or something, who gives a rat's ass if the baby sitter had some.
For real!!!! I'd offer a slice of pizza to the internet service tech or whoever was in my house. You come in my house when food arrives/is finished cooking, you are getting food. It's why we go nuts making extra, there is always enough food for company.
This is how I see it as well. This young person is looking after your kids and you wanna make sure that they are taken care of. Like an extension of your family. You trusting your children with them and hopefully building a relationship with them overtime. seems like a couple pieces of pizza is the least you could do besides paying them.
Also, don't you want the person who is in charge of your child's well being to be nourished? I mean, are they gonna let you drink their water? Use their toilet? Insane
I know right, they get a text next time “is it ok if I use your microwave” (but there won’t be a next time head use op you’re not allowed to go back there lol)
Seriously. If I was the parent coming home, asking how the night went, and the babysitter had said, "It went really well, now I've got to get home. I'm really hungry." I'd have asked them why they didn't have any of the pizza.

You should always feed the babysitter. It's implied. Pizza, by its very nature, especially implies that it's for everyone.
That's the thing, though. Real Money would never even think to quibble about the cost of a pizza, and New Money would order you a second pizza with gold-plated anchovies just to flex. I think OP's clients are just plain old jerks.
Even so, if they actually "have money" and think they are better, they should be fine feeding the sitter servant. Wth. These people just suck!
No, it would be the opposite. Nobody with anything like real “money” would think twice about feeding an employee. Anyone who has any familiarity with in-home child care is well aware that it is the responsibility of the family to feed the nanny/babysitter when she’s with the kids, and would be embarrassed not to.
I grew up babysitting for really wealth families, dinner was always provided.
Nah, they're probably just middle class and happen to be stingy assholes.
what it comes down to is if you are working the entire dinner time you need time to eat the best time to do so is when the kids are eating thus feed the nanny.

it also teaches kids that we are all the same and that they aren't above the hired help. you don't want to teach kids to set someone aside.
This. And I couldn’t do the work teachers do for the measly amount they are paid. You’re kids are supposed to be the most important thing to you. You should want the best for them,
I do subsidized childcare through my state. I'm licensed exempt because of how many children I currently keep (just 2 toddlers) but I still have certain classes I have to take and my home has to be inspected annually and all that fun stuff. The pay rate? $24 a day per child. My spouse's income covers all our needs so I'm able to stay home and doing a little childcare gives me something to do while still being home on the days my kid is home from school. I can't imagine if someone needed to actually depend on this type of income to survive. We need childcare and I truly enjoy working with children and I like to offer parents an alternative to daycare centers (I accept special needs children while a lot of centers can't; because my daughter has some medical problems and I know the stress).

The flip side of subsidized care is a woman I know who was recently arrested for a suspected DWI. She was taking her child's ADHD medication and caring for other people's children. I know word has went around not to let her care for children anymore and she's now angry and saying everyone is lying and "out to get her." How she ever passed a background check to her approved in the first place, I'll never know. 

Childcare is a crapshoot, that's for sure. And definitely an underrated career.
>My mom used to tell our babysitter in the summer to help herself to whatever she wanted.

Honestly I thought this was pretty standard for babysitters.
English muffin pizzas were the jam!
exactly, if i had kids and needed a babysitter, they would have access to my streaming, wifi, food and whatever they needed to be comfortable taking care of my little terrors. Bedroom door would be locked but other than that the house is your for the night while im out. make yourself at home. And thank you by the way for minding my kiddos while im out for the evening. I also probably would order enough pizza for everyone to have some.  Those parents just SUCK

OP NTA obvs
That's exactly what I was going to say. When I was studying to be a nurse, I babysat a toddler with respiratory problems every Friday night for months. The parents would always say things like "There's leftovers in the refrigerator eat as much as you want." NTA Don't sit for them again.
Right or at the very least say this up front. “We’re ordering pizza.  You can’t have any”. Dick move but at least you would know up front.
I was never even told to just eat what I want. The parents would make sure I had food of my own to eat. Every couple I babysat for (and it was a lot between the ages of 13-27) would make sure I had food even providing snacks just in case.

Who wants a hangry babysitter watching their kids?
NTA.  This.  I'm catsitting for a couple at the moment and they always say to me 'feel free to help yourself to tea stuff" (I'm wondering if by stuff they include helping myself to their stash of gin or the TV 😆). In all seriousness I've never been in or known of a situation where you're not allowed to eat or drink while looking after someone's kids or pets.  These parents don't sound very nice and I probably would not babysit for them again.
*”I was always told to feel free to eat whatever I wanted while I was babysitting.”*

So, that *didn’t* include the Macallan 40 Year Old?
It is weird, and that’s enough to make me want to quit if it was me.
One time I babysat for my boss, who was a UK guy living in California. His very precocious child (F7-8?) greeted me when we met with a “menu” she’d prepared for me of all that I could eat and drink at her house, that *she* would prepare for *me*. It cracked me up, but the best thing was that there were two beverages sections: adult beverages and child beverages. Child was like water, juice, and soft drinks. Adult was like martini, whiskey, wine, etc. (I was 23, not a teen babysitter.) She really wanted my drink order, and mind you my boss is still there talking with me and kid in the kitchen while his wife finishes getting ready. So I obviously asked for a water or juice or something off that side of the menu, not even because my boss but because why would I drink while babysitting? She was SO disappointed I was not choosing adult drinks and boss pushed me to go ahead and “relax with at least some wine, she’s got some good ones you can choose from“ and make myself at home (I stuck to child bevs). Later she made and served us both pasta while I supervised. It was so weird and strangely charming. I bring it up because I feel it is the exact opposite universe to this family.
Same, in fact I had parents be concerned when I did NOT eat anything while I was there.  (I'm a vegetarian so their planned meal wasn't always something I could eat, and I wasn't the type to go rummaging.)
These are the type of people who would be mad at her for not giving the kid half her sandwich if that was the case.
That or they can come and cover her for a 30 min lunchbreak... Mr. and Mrs. Scrooge McDuck over here
This is the solution op. Don’t accept a job from them again. They can enjoy looking for a different reliable baby sitter
In my experience, kids always want to share or  try what someone else is eating. It would be weird to be expected to sit there and eat your own different meal.
> Imagine if OP brings their own food that looks better than the pizza, now the parents have to deal with pissed off kids

/r/MaliciousCompliance moment. I actually want her to do that now. Tell the parents she will not eat their kids food. Order a pizza for the kids. Then cook the most scrumptious lasagna of all time. Refuse to give it to the kids. Then never work there again.

_It's not about the money. It's about sending a message._
back in the day not only did you feed the sitter you actually thanked her.
... what food IS gonna look better to a preteen kid than pizza?
Or babysit one more time, bring herself some McDonald's for her meal and see how the kids like the pizza and breadsticks then.
That or increase your rate by enough to order door dash from your favorite place.
I hope the kids don't grow up to be stingy a holes like their parents.
I fear possibly because they had plans for the pizzza leftovers themselves, and are annoyed the babysitter ate some of the pizza they wanted.
Nah they threw it away **right in front of her** because she ate some.
Agree avoid. Or use them as practice in setting boundaries and getting raises. 

"Sure I can do it. But I charge X amount more per hour now and I must be paid in advance on arrival. No exceptions. Have a nice day..."
The bread stick that broke the camels back
The breadstick was probably what crossed the line!
They probably want to dock her pay.  What jerks the parents are!
Good babysitters are GOLD.  You want to make them extremely happy. 

I'm old.  The standard has always been to feed the babysitter.  When I \*was\* the babysitter I was fed.  When I hired babysitters I fed them.

NTA at all.  And If I were you I would not babysit for that couple again.
You pay VERY well! Then again, I haven't babysat in decades (through Uni) but $25- an hour would have been unheard of - unless she had qualifications.

Then again, you trust her, value her work and her relationship with your child, and the fact that you are able to go out. I admire your decision. I wish more people were as appreciative of the people they entrust with their children.
Ha ha, my first job after school was in Palm Beach, right by Mar a Lago. I’ve never seen so many people (mostly very wealthy) try to skip out on their bills. Those who did pay were often nasty about it. Give me normal, respectful, working class people any day.
Maybe it's a regional or cultural thing but I was always taught that it's even rude to start eating before other people in your group have their food. Nevermind eating when they won't be eating at all. 

I'd probably have been one of those kids that wouldn't eat.  Or I'd insist they eat too. Meals are one of the most important social activities and it'd just feel wrong.
My wife works at a Head Start program with 1 & 2 year olds. They seat with the kids at lunch and exemplify how to eat the food to them and eat with them so they can get comfortable eating strange foods they haven't had before. (Most are from another country so they are learning English and how to conduct themselves at lunch as part of the curriculum)
This is the shit I see on Facebook when people are looking for others to watch their kids all day for 30 bucks.
That's true. A job is much easier
Of course, but the thing is that we can safely assume neither an unpaid lunch break (so, an interruption to babysitting which can obviously not happen) nor a *paid* lunch break are remotely in the agreement this cheap-ass couple has with OP.

As such, while they are not required to provide food, they *are* required to really think about whether two slices of pizza are worth giving up on what is most likely an off-the-books-agreement that benefits both parties vs. an on-the-books-one that would force them to pay the sitter accordingly - including an on-duty-lunch break.


Frankly, these nincompoops would have to at *the very minimum* tell OP: "Please bring your own food." - and they'd still be assholes.
My wife had a coworker who was always looking for babysitters.  My wife naively agreed and it was a nightmare.  Late to pay, late to pick up, frequently little/no supplies (they were dropped off at our house).  Capped off at Halloween where they were dropped off after trick or treating so mom could go to the bar, but she claimed she only had enough for like 2 or 3 drinks and would be back by 10.  Rolled in at 10 AM, had ignored her phone all night and apparently other people at the bar were buying her drinks after her money ran out.  We didn't have overnight clothes, didn't have school things for the oldest, and then to top it all off she stiffed us on payment.  Found out later this was her MO, and she owed a ton of her coworkers babysitting money and just moved on to the next person instead of paying.  She primarily worked a different shift from my wife so not much interaction.
Oh, they do. Word about bad parents like these gets around and can make it impossible to find a sitter. Hopefully OP is plugged in to those groups in her area.
I once had two pizzas (heading to a par-tayyy!) on a train that got stuck in the tunnel. Realizing we would be there for quite a while (and I wouldn’t make it to the event), I quickly made myself the most popular girl on the train.
Not to mention, half the time with small kids (mine anyway), unless the adult with them was eating, they would run off and play, saying well why aren't you eating? NTA at all.
It is, and these parents are going to find it hard to find future baby sitters.
It is standard, OP is totally NTA and these parents are weird. In my babysitting/nannying days I've had parents point out something that's designated for a particular purpose and so is off limits - like, this ham is for tomorrow (implying both please don't eat this and also please don't let the kids eat this), but the norm was that you could eat with the kids and/or grab a snack.
totally is, one family i sat for even showed me their secret stash of parent snacks with the only restriction being to wait to open that drawer after the kids went to bed so i didn’t compromise their hiding spot 😂
I can't imagine not leaving food and drinks for the babysitter. 

I was a babysitter in the 90s and I was always welcome to the pantry.
>I also probably would order enough pizza for everyone to have some.

I thought this was a 'given" when hiring babysitters.  Agree with you "Those parents SUCK"!!!
I was the babysitter of last resort for my aunt and uncle, who lived next door, and they always said I could eat anything in the house - except, I assume, my cousins.
In the absence of any more formal arrangement, raiding the fridge was always part of the babysitting gig, as I understand things.
Seriously, I’d be happy to let a babysitter eat leftovers (or some pizza in OP’s scenario) as long as they didn’t eat what was planned for the kids’ lunches the next day. Having less shit in my fridge is a rarity, it’s always packed with stuff my kids eat half of and then *mayyyybe* eat for lunch a day later. Otherwise a lot goes to waste.
I babysat for the same family for years; after a year, both parents knew my pizza preferences so if I was babysitting on a Friday or Saturday night, they'd get a separate pizza just for me.
Or say “we ordered pizza, the kids will probably eat it all, but help yourself to boxed macaroni” or SOMETHING!! She’s definitely NTA
Not only that but "babysittertime" was something my kids looked forward to because I usually provided special snacks they didn't get everyday. It was part of the routine "mommy and daddy are going out on a date, what do u think Ruthie would like to share for snacktime" . A fun person coming over, pizza for dinner and then getting to make camp in the living room snacking on ringadingos and homemade icecream milkshakes?! Woo-hoo!
I'm assuming you're not staying over? Because I recently dog sat for a friend, stayed over because puppies are elderly and needed to be let out to pee on demand for medical reasons, and I basically did nothing but watch movies with them and do my own work on my laptop for several days. With my own kitties they don't need a lot (auto feeder, auto litter box, they just need some love and company and someone to verify all systems are operational) but I still tell my sitters to feel free to grab a snack and plonk on the couch to watch anything on my various streaming services, because I know my kitty buds love a couch cuddle and will be quite happy if someone gives them a lap while watching a show. On which note, I almost guarantee they do mean the TV, because their buds probably love the company if you hang out longer than expected!
I used to cat sit for a couple who also specifically told me to help myself to tea stuff. It’s such a specific offer - wonder if it’s the same people? 😆
I always told the sitters they were free to help themselves to anything they wanted *except the alcohol*.
[removed]
This is the comment right here. If you aren't expected to eat with them they need to provide a proper "lunch break" relief.
I am pretty certain that Scrooge McDuck would have had dry loaves of bread that he got for free from the bakery, bottles of rainwater and possibly pre-used tea bags ready.

You are wronging Scrooge McDuck XD
What do you mean, break? She's not supposed to eat on the job. /s
I don't think I would have had the confidence to do this at 20, but now in my 30s I would also tell them why if they tried to hire me again.

"I enjoyed taking care of your kids, but the issue you had with my eating dinner is extremely weird and frankly rude. Every other family I've worked for expects and encourages me to share dinner with their kids."
Finally!  A reasonable answer.  The number of people suggesting tormenting kids that had nothing to do with the situation just to stick it to the parents was insane.  Just don't sit for them again!
I think the parents are looking at the babysitter as a household servant, who of course would never eat with the family. That said, it's pretty fucked up. My family would treat a babysitter more like a guest, or as a part of the family.
These are kids.

 If you want to cause trouble, you just have ice cream for dinner.
Or wait until they are half out the door and then remind them about state labor laws require her to have a 15 minute break after 5 hours and then have a friend on call for 100 bucks for the 15 minute break.
No, no need to be mean to the kids just because their parents are AHs
Or feed the kids their boring pasta and sauce, order yourself a pizza and eat it in front of them.
I would bet a small amount that they aren't even stingy in every situation. They sound like unhappy adults who were not properly socially trained. Or hungry sociopaths maybe. I would even through another 5 on there and bet they're rich too. I might be wrong but I'll take a low risk bet on that.
Then they should’ve said that to begin with.
That’s absurd. If they wanted pizza when they got home, or the next day, they need to get their own pizza, or order entirely too much for 3 people to eat and ask the sitter to pack up the leftovers once they’re done eating for lunch tomorrow or whatever. They’re nuts.
Because I need the money to have my dinner delivered to me while I'm working here tonight.
Parents: OMG, our kids’ babysitter ate the breadstick. This is an abomination to humanity!

Everyone on Reddit: No, you both are idiots for expecting your guest to just not eat anything the whole time they were there. Your kids were well fed and no one was hungry, and last time I checked, it sounded like the night went well.
I used to clean a private residence that was 8K sq ft. I would be there for 8 hours straight, twice a week. The owner worked from home, and watched me like a hawk. I told her that I needed to stop and have a Cliff bar or something in the middle (I did NOT feel welcome to use their microwave or bring a lunch) and she looked annoyed and told me to mark the 10 minutes that it took me to stuff the bar in my face, on my timecard.
Why did you not call the police so they could deal with this abandonment?  Leaving kids past the agreed upon time with zero communication is a police call 100% of the time if you are a responsible person.

Maybe the parent is in trouble like a car accident?  You don't know.
That's so crazy to think someone is entrusting their children to someone but not treating them to food.  Food is a lot cheaper than a divorce or a lost job.
Just don't eat the last serving, or the first serving out of a package that might be being saved.
Especially back in the day when I was paid $1/ hour, but even now that I employ babysitters at $13-$18/ hour I still get an open fridge policy.
A beloved family we babysat for as kids would purposely stock the pantry with Pepperidge farm Parmesan goldfish and diet Dr Pepper, because they knew my sisters and I loved those.  Don’t work for these rude food shamers again.
Right!! I always made sure there were plenty of good snacks for my kids and the sitter to share. And when I was younger and babysitting myself, the same was done for me. I have fond memories of babysitting some of the greatest kids, as we'd all sit on the floor in front of the TV watching the latest Disney movie out on VHS or playing a game of Uno as we stuffed ourselves with pizza, chips and Twinkies - supplied by the kids parents.
Yes, this was "babysitter night" at my house too!
Elderly puppies? I had no idea Benjamin Button affected dogs as well. Much love to the pups 💖
I used to sit for a lot of well-to-do families.  Sometimes,  they would have leftovers from a fancy party they'd held recently,  and I was always encouraged to snack to my hearts content!   Petit fours, yum!

I don't believe any family ever expected me to feed their kids without also feeding myself.
Exactly. It’s basic manners to feed anyone working in your house for more than a few hours. It’s different if it’s a cable guy who’s just there for 10 minutes, but if you have a plumber or a housekeeper there for hours at a time, you offer them food. If they’re there through meal times, you feed them. Idk how people can be so cold.
Also: why would you want the person in charge of your kids be hungry? That's going to impair their reaction, judgment, etc.. - just let them have some food.
Or just eat the children after they've fattened up.
This is the way.  20 year old me wouldn't have done it, but 43 year old me would have wished that 20 year old me was that big of a badass.
>Extremely weird and frankly rude. 

Love this part.
Less obvious, and easier to transport, would be fast food, especially something like a Happy Meal.
box of 20 chicken nuggets from McDonalds would be my go to.

Sorry, these are my dinner.
With colorful sprinkles. Make sure they go on in front of the kids
Oh man. Bring cookies, chips and ice cream and don't share.
Many states like Michigan have **no** law requiring breaks. In Michigan, you can have a 24 hour shift and have no requirements for a break.
  
Yes, these ridiculous laws or rather lack of laws need to change.
There's often bylaws around childcare or caregiving in general for such work. Here where I am in canada I work as a special needs aid, 10-12 hours a day and I am not eligible for a break due to the safety of my patients being at risk of i take one. That doesn't mean I'm not able to make myself food or use the bathroom throughout the day though and when my patients sleep I am also permitted to nap or do whatever as long as I am available should they require me. 

However the labour laws would apply if I worked in a health care facility where there would be someone available to cover my breaks as the work would be shift work instead of working for individual families.
AITA showing its maturity level again.
One family I babysat for would leave me a steak to jenn-aire grill while the kids had spagetti-o! Everyone was happy. Bottom line is that if you're babysitting over mealtime, you should be fed!
Same. I’d bet they were monied. And how dare the maid errrr babysitter do anything other than watch the every move of their kids. If she absolutely must eat while on the clock, it should be something that not one of them would like to have for leftovers! 🙄
Not disagreeing there.

If their attitude to babysitters is "You eat before you work or you bring your own food" then they should say so upfront, and give a babysitter a fair chance either to ask for a higher rate of pay or to refuse the job.   


I've babysat for families whose policy was to leave out a snack *for* me, and let me know where the tea and coffee was, because they had a meal plan that didn't include free range munching through their leftovers, but I've *never* worked for a family who, if they expected me to serve a meal to the kids, would have wanted me not to eat with the kids. (In fact, one family of unregenerate carnivores, finding I was vegetarian, would apologetically make a point of inviting me to cook any food I wanted from their kitchen, since I couldn't eat the meat meal the kids were getting. I took the opportunity to give the kids a few cooking lessons in How To Prepare A Nourishing Vegetarian Meal.)
O, very nice! 'Because we want to avoid _any_ misunderstandings! I like it!
Holy shit, she really expected you to not stop for food for 10 minutes while you’re cleaning for 8 hour stretches? Some people really are heartless.
Wife is non-confrontational and was worried about still having to work with this person.  I was asleep since I worked 3:30am-1:30pm at the time.  She has since grown a backbone but this was almost 12 years ago.
agreed, it’s insane to me. snacks were like the best perk of babysitting, and the more comfortable i felt in someone’s home the more likely i would be happy to sit for them again.
When I was younger I babysat for a family who had a 5 yr old and a 1 yr old. I was a new mom of a 10 month old. I liked it bc I could bring my son with me. I was there 10-12 hrs a day. The kids weren’t allowed to watch tv except for an hour daily. I noticed my pay was short for the week and was an odd amount. Turns out they charged me for being on their wifi and bc I would turn on the music channel to soft music while the babies slept and sometimes would charge my phone. they charged me for use of electric. That was the last time I babysat for them
I work in residential hvac retrofitting furnaces and AC's. Every job is 5-10 hours in their home. Sometimes multi day Installs for people replacing both or with more than one.

I have been offered lunch three times in four, going on five years. It's not something I would ever expect but sure would be nice if there were more people like you in this world.

Its not like I'm disheveled or rude or anything either. I'm clean cut, wear a clean uniform, speak politely and even have a program text them a nice photo of my face with a basic description saying I have two hvac related tickets and like to spend my free time at the park with my golden retreiver. Quite a few people have even declined letting us use their rest room.
I had my walkway redone yesterday.

It took the whole day.

The workers got sit down family lunch. I didn't even think about not doing it.

When I did grocery shopping, and meal plan, I counted 2 more for saturday lunch.

It's something that is so ingrainated with me, and my culture that this post is baffling to me.

And when I say it's in the culture, the workers did not seemed surprised when I asked about allergies and food restrictions. Like it is so normal that they expected it.
Yes it’s basic manners, but also, why are they pissing off the person they are entrusting the most important things in their lives - their little children? That is what seems crazy to me about this post and others I’ve seen about treatment of babysitters, does nobody care about their children enough to ensure they are with someone who is actually in the frame of mind to care about them!!
I'd argue its good manners to offer food if you have anybody there and you're eating. Not just workers.

Or at least acknowledge "I would've made you something but I wasn't expecting company" or something like that.

I'd consider that good manners because if your guest is hungry they might not want to watch you eat.
Now you're going a little too far. I am a house painter and in all my years of work I've only eaten at a customers house a couple times when they insisted. The customer is in no way obligated to feed trades people in their homes.
Yes it’s basic manners, but also, why are they pissing off the person they are entrusting the most important things in their lives - their little children? That is what seems crazy to me about this post and others I’ve seen about treatment of babysitters, does nobody care about their children enough to ensure they are with someone who is actually in the frame of mind to care about them!!
Oof, the toy.... perfect.
Be sure to stipulate that you would love to share your food, but their parents made the no share rule.
Oh my goodness, at first I thought, *surely* federal labor law must cover this. But no! They can make you work 24 hours a day with no breaks. The only rules are you have to get overtime once you reach 40 hours in a week, and you can get paid less for times during that 24 hrs when you're asleep. 

OSHA doesn't even require rest or water breaks!!

This is not a good country.
The pettiness is one thing - a bad one, but still - but to then just deduct pay and give no explanation or discuss it up front is beyond words. Asshole parents. I feel bad for you, but think how those kids get raised! They probably need to bring coins to the bathroom for toilet paper! 😖
I nannied for a family who asked if they could pay me less when the kids were asleep because I “wasn’t really doing anything”. I asked if I could leave for a bit during that time then…she paid me the full rate 🙄
I feel you on the restroom denial. I'm an HVAC service tech myself and have been denied access to a restroom many times. The homeowners will usually change their tunes when I tell them that my labor fee is by the hour and not a flat fee, and I don't stop the clock for restroom breaks even if I drive 15 minutes down the road to a gas station to relieve myself. Homeowners are the reason I switched to doing mainly (and hopefully soon, strictly) Commercial. Although quite a few have at least offered me water or coffee in the past.
That’s classist shit, right there.

I was employed with an agency providing medical massage, in client homes. Standard rule, by the agency, was  that we could not use the client’s restrooms. So I’d drive four hours, work four, and have zero restroom breaks.

Day six I decided to ask if I could wash my hands. The client mentioned it to my employer and I was written up. For asking to *wash my hands* in a *medical role* while I drove *house to house.*

This was at the end of Covid lockdowns. 

Sanitizer=/= a good scrubbing.
Declined letting you use the restroom??? Bizarre!

I always offer people working my home a drink, and would offer meals for a job that's taking place over mealtimes. People seem to almost always turn it down (maybe some rule by their employer in some cases? IDK -- we have a very clean house and kitchen and I'm sure that's not a reason why someone would decline to eat our food.) Maybe some of the people you're working for are turned down so often they stopped offering?
if it makes you feel any better, a lot of times people will decline because the bathroom isnt like sparkling clean for company to use.
I kind of just assumed workers would bring their own lunch, so I’ve never offered! I always make sure there’s a standing offer for water and soft drinks though, because it’s a pain in the ass to lug around enough of those for a full day’s work.

Also, who wouldn’t let you use the washroom? That’s just *cruel*.
> Quite a few people have even declined letting us use their rest room.

That's just cold.
That’s disgusting. I’m sorry the world sucks. 

I had a guy coke by to fix a leak on my roof this summer. He had the whole family with him as they had been at their cottage nearby and were stopping at my place on their way home. 

The job took about 15 minutes but the whole family and drinks and a bathroom break and those girls got snacks with my kids. 

We gotta take care of eachother
That horrible. I'm so sorry.
Yeah. I don't get it. We're having some yard work done (20+ trees!) and I cleaned the bathroom extra for the guys, got extra drinks, and snacks. I also put the first aid kit in a visible and accessible place. I want the gentlemen to be healthy, safe, and taken care of.
I’ve done the same with movers. I’m ordering a pizza what y’all want on it.

It’s absolutely normal.

You’ve been working all day - moved my ish from one place and into another. 

At the very very least I could feed you on top of paying on top of tipping - tf
We had our floor redone and it took the whole day and they stayed for 4 hours after they should have gone home. We bought those guys pizza, even if we had to fire them after all that work, because the quality of the work was just not OK 😅 and they wasted too many tiles that should have been used.
Exactly! If you're doing any kind of work on my property for any length of time (and you aren't an asshole or someone who dislikes my animals), you will be treated like family and will be welcome at my table. You are welcome to eat whatever we're eating. We don't hand out PBnJ sandwiches and grape drink while we nibble on caviar and sip Dom Perignon. (We're not actually the type of people to nibble on caviar or sip Dom Perineum, I'm just making a point .... and I'm leaving that autocorrect result because it's fucking hilarious.)

I thought this "everyone is family" thing was mostly an Italian-American thing, but I'm glad to see it's just a "decent human being" thing. I always make sure the landscapers who do my neighbor's lawn in the summer have plenty of cold water, iced tea, or Gatorade to drink. It's not that my neighbor wouldn't do this herself, but she's hardly ever home. It's just basic human decency to not want some poor, dehydrated worker to collapse from heatstroke.

My little brother used to do electrical work in the homes of several famous people. Most of these celebrities didn't even acknowledge his existence, but there was one musician in particular who was super kind to him. That man made sure my brother had enough to eat and drink, he took him on a house tour, and he basically treated him like a fellow human being. That person was Swizz Beatz. I'm not into hip-hop, but I'll always have a soft spot for Swizz Beatz because he stayed kind and humble despite his success. (Alicia Keys was rarely home, so my brother didn't have any stories about her.)
It's definitely a culture thing, because here feeding the babysitter would be considered normal (in the past I've been offered "help yourself to anything in the kitchen") but feeding workers would be unusual if they were one-offs (different if it's a Nanny or something). Refreshments are offered like tea and biscuits, but it'd be weird to offer a full meal. We had a group of workers fixing our garage roof for about a week and their lunch break was a chance to get away from our house and rest a bit.

We don't tend to keep drink alternatives like coffee in because I can't stand the smell, but if we ever hire workers I make sure to have a selection of coffee, juice etc in that we wouldn't normally. I'd also make sure we had snacks in for a babysitter, or include them in a planned meal if they'd be present when it was eaten.
Agree. I was a goose painter for years. I did a lot of whole home repaints/ repairs and was typically on a home for multiple days at a time. I never expected anything from clients, but clients often left snacks or lunch or drinks if I wanted them. Many made sure there was coffee for me. Loved that.

*House
Humans shouldn’t even have to ask to use the restroom. I once had a guy working ON THE BATHROOM walk out the bathroom and walk through the apt in his plumber shoes to ask to use the bathroom. If society was decent he could have just… stayed in the bathroom.
I used to work at a home healthcare company and the stories I heard about the home health aides being denied use of the bathroom while they were taking care of the client. These people were then spoken to by the nurse supervisor that if that continues, they will not send a home health aide.  Fortunately, this was a rare occurrence. 

Our nurses often told about the clients families would provide a meal if they were there during a meal time. Opening a client to the agency took a bit of time so it was a polite gesture. HHA’s on the other hand were discouraged from eating the client’s food and to bring their own food. 

Yes, they had a kind of “rules for thee, none for me” between the aides  and the nurses.
Crazy! When we had guys in doing repairs and painting we told them they had free use of the bathrooms. We weren't home, so feeding wasn't really a thing, and they always brought their lunch (I found chicken bones, crayfish shells, and crab legs in the trash lol, not stuff we put there). It didn't occur to me to NOT let them use the bathroom.
Nice to know these humans forget that you're human too.
Fuck that client. Next massage isn’t with oil, but poison ivy.

Edit: and fuck that employer for expecting you to just ruin your kidneys for a shitty job. What the hell is wrong with so many human beings??
I agree with this post. I offer food and beverage. Bathroom privileges depend on the cleanliness that day. I’m 43 and only had to say no once, but that was to a door to door solar panel salesman I wasn’t expecting. I’d rather you view me as a jerk than nasty.
[deleted]
I really don’t care if the bathroom is sparkling clean or not. I gotta pee.
This! The only time I’ve ever said no, it was to a mover and it was because the bathroom was torn apart from moving and because I hadn’t cleaned it in a few days. I was raised to believe that bathrooms have to be sparkling clean if a man is going to use it, since they lift the seat. 

I bolted to clean it and get the box of hair products and carton of linens out of the way but I swear, I could feel him thinking I was being a jerk. When we got to the new place, I was like, “I already cleaned enough for company here!!!”
Absolutely get that. But in all honesty, that bathroom is unlikely the worst they’ve seen. 
And if it is, the bar on cleanliness just drops for everyone else.
The horror stories I’ve heard.
Same, as a military family we moved a lot. And I have fed many crews of movers over the 26 years we were active. And then tipped them. The biggest hit was ordering subs from this fantastic sub shop on the East coast (I miss that place). Not a thing was scratched or broken that move 😄
Our last move was from north of Uk to middle but.  Movers arrived at 8am we arrived at new place about 5pm. They all got presented with packs of sandwiches, crisps and cold drinks. They got coffee too. Anyone sets foot in my house to do any kind of job and they get offered a drink (hot or cold). It is basic manners to my mind.
Pizza and movers, now THAT is standard practice!
When we had our roof redone I had a cooler full of water and body armors and some snacks. It would be odd to not feed them something. 

As someone who used to babysit a lot, most parents always say help yourself so this family is definitely weird.
Dom Perineum is waaaay better than Josh Taint.....
AITA for abandoning my parents at an island in the Caribbean so I could get back to our cruise in time? 
I graduated from high school back in December. As a gift my parents got me a cruise. It was also for my 18th birthday. It was also a family vacation. We usually stay at all inclusive resorts but I have always wanted to go on a cruise. 

I told my parents it was different and that if we went on excursions we had to follow the schedule no matter what. 

Well it was a week-long cruise and they would not head back to the ship when I said it was time to go. They were busy shopping and bargaining with the locals. I finally said that I was heading back to the ship. My mom waved me off. 

The missed the departure. By a lot. Like 45 minutes. They got ahold of me through WhatsApp. They wanted to know why I didn't get the boat to wait for them.  

I wanted to scream that they were not going to inconvenience 3,998 people because two could not understand what a schedule was. 

They ended up having to fly to the next port from there and it was expensive. They are pissed at me for leaving them behind. 

I don't know what I was supposed to do. They literally told me that they knew what they were doing. 

I wish I had never asked for this.  They are making me miserable because I left without them. 
Welcome to /r/AmITheAsshole. Please view our [voting guide here](https://www.reddit.com/r/AmItheAsshole/wiki/faq#wiki_what.2019s_with_these_acronyms.3F_what_do_they_mean.3F), and remember to use **only one** judgement in your comment.

OP has offered the following explanation for why they think they might be the asshole:

 > My parents thought a cruise ship would wait for them. I knew it wouldn't so I went back and made our departure time. My parents did not. I might be the asshole for not staying back with my parents and costing them more in flights to the next port. Or for not dragging them back when it was time. I don't know what they expect from me.

Help keep the sub engaging!

#Don’t downvote assholes!

Do upvote interesting posts!

 [Click Here For Our Rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/AmItheAsshole/about/rules) and [Click Here For Our FAQ](https://www.reddit.com/r/AmItheAsshole/wiki/faq)

##Subreddit Announcements

Follow the link above to learn more

---

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose/?to=/r/AmItheAsshole) if you have any questions or concerns.*

*Contest mode is 1.5 hours long on this post.*
NTA. Your parents are acting entitled. Tell them you saved them the expense of a third ticket to the next port.
Your parents are in the wrong.

I don't do cruises but I have some experience with them because I travel to a place were cruise ships are common.  I also thought passengers were warned that the ship leaves no matter who is on board.

You would never have been able to prevent the cruise chip from leaving.  They have a schedule and they keep to it.  The ship waits for no one.

This is ALL on your parents..  They didn't respect the ship schedule.

NTA
NTA they seriously think the ship will delay for 45 minutes, yea no. The docks and ship have a schedule to keep. They are adults and need to be responsible for getting back on time. Which is something you have figured out in less than 6 months of being an adult. At least you don’t have to go on any more vacations with them after this.
What precisely do they think you could have done? Kidnapped the captain? Staged your own drowning? You didn't abandon them, they abandoned you, don't let them weasel word this around to being your fault in any way, shape or form!

I'm really sorry your parents have ruined this for you. It's pretty pathetic of them to blame you for their extremely easy to avoid deliberate bad decision.

They owe you at least two apologies, one for ignoring your sage advice in the first place, the second for behaving like spoiled 4 year olds.

NTA, and I really hope you make your parents read this thread.
NTA. In addition to you explaining that the ship will not wait for them, I am sure they were made aware of this by the cruise workers many times. They chose to ignore the guidelines and as a result had to face the consequences of their actions. That's what being an adult is, and they seem immature and narcissistic for trying to shift the blame onto you for their poor decisionmaking skills.
Look at it this way, you saved them having to pay out for a third airline ticket. They were warned, thought they knew better, now are facing the consequences. Ask them sincerely what else you were supposed to do in reality when they’ve signed contracts as part of being on the cruise? I guarantee the cruise line has it in writing that passengers are responsible for getting themselves back to the ship on time. NTA
I would 100% ask for help from an official looking employee, and make my parents stand there with their straight faces and have to listen to that employee explain it to them.

NTA
NTA. Cruise ships have a schedule to keep, and there was no way they would wait for just two passengers without knowing where they were. 

They MIGHT wait if there's a whole bunch of passengers being delayed on an excursion that was organized by the cruise ship company, but that's iffy.
Do they think a plane would wait 45 mins for them? Clearly they were able to navigate that. You are NTA.
I've been on a half-dozen cruises in my life. On every single one, the information about returning to the ship on time was: listed on the tickets, announced in welcome/safety announcements, on a placard in the room, and prominently posted when you disembarked the ship.

Your parents are adults... There is absolutely no excuse for them to claim that they were unaware of this extremely basic rule of cruising. On top of that, you even warned them when you were off the ship, and they chose to disregard you. 

And now they have the nerve to blame *you* for not magically having the authority to override all of the ship's policies? NTA
Let me guess. As a kid, were you made to wait at and hold up a long line at the grocery checkout while your mom is still shopping? Parents like yours drive me up the wall. NTA.
NTA Cruise ships *do not* wait for people, especially when they don't even try to get back on time.

There was a great video of passengers hustling back to cruise ships and being left behind. One couple even got confined to their cabin after repeated incidents.
Tell them the cost of making a boat wait 45mins is more than they can afford
You may want to read Adult Children Of Emotionally Immature Parents.. NTA. And happy belated birthday!
NTA, tell them they're lucky you got back to the ship in time. Otherwise they would have had to pay for three plane tickets instead of two. There is nothing you could have done.     
I'd also tell them you informed the crew that your parents were still not back but they didn't care as they have a schedule to keep.     
Of course they try to shift responsibility away from themselves instead of acknowledging that they f*ed up. It's not the ships fault, not your fault, it's them. But I'd guess they will not accept that.
NTA.  Any transport is not going to wait for them indefinitely.  Not just cruise, but planes and trains as well.
Kid, show your parents this thread. Those ships wait for no one. Not even your special snowflake parents.
NTA. Your parents need to adult better
NTA

Cruises have a schedule there is no way they would wait for 2 people. This entirely on them for being late.

Even if you had asked it is unlikely the ship would have waited.

Maybe next time they will not be so bloody inconsiderate and improve their time keeping.
NTA - ships do not miss movement for anyone (barring a serious medical emergency). There are a ton of reasons for this: tide windows, currents, docking times, other ships movements, etc. 

There is no possible way you could have stopped that boat from leaving. And it’s completely absurd they think you could have done anything at all 

This is squarely on their shoulders and they can’t accept responsibility for the consequences of their actions.
NTA.  Costs the cruise line money to stay docked after their allotted time.  On rare occasions we’ve experienced ships waiting for passengers, usually those that are on ship excursions. 

They’re lucky they had passports to fly to the next port.
NTA 

if you stayed with them three people would need flight tickets.
NTA.

You learned something from your education, your parents should be proud that you’ve learned to be logical, realistic, and thoughtful of others (nearly 4K of them). To expect the cruise ship to wait for them is an arrogant, entitled, and prideful expectation.
NTA. They are theoretically adults!
They wanted you to miss the cruise with them? What are they? Children? That would have been even more expensive needing one more flight ticket. 

Besides, all your belongings were on the ship I assume. At least someone was on the ship to hand over all the information, like updates on if the ship has a delay. What the next stop is and where exactly.

They wanted you to suffer the consequences of their mistakes? They already left you stressed of being on time yourself, then waiting for them and missing the boat, not showing up on time. 18 is still kinda young, barley an adult to be left alone on a big ship. If they wanted you to miss the boat along with them, they should be the ones making guidelines like, what if x, what do we as group do. You were very clear you were returning to the boat. You did nothing wrong. They should apologie to you instead.
NTA. You are completely in the right about this. Have them talk to someone on the crew if they need further explanation.
Edited to fix words/spelling - keyboard swipe errors


I've been on several cruise ship lines and they warn everyone to be been on time because they will leave without you.  Its their  financial responsibility to meet at the next port if they miss the ship's departure. 


In addition, you scan your card on the way out and on the way back.  The cruise were aware that not everyone was back. They didn't stop the cruise ship from leaving.   Unfortunately for your parents cruise ships are on a schedule at each port with other ships coming and going - they can't occupy past their assigned slot when another ship needs to dock.


Go to customer service, explain the situation,  and ask if you can have the rules printed out and verify if you had told them you're parents weren't back on the ship would they have waited. Also,  how would you know whether they were back on the ship or not before the ship left?  Did they say they'd text or call when they were back on the ship? Or were you to use your crystal ball to see them still haggling?  I doubt you stayed in their cabin until they walked in with their purchases. 


Your parents are entitled and refuse to take responsibility for their choices and the consequences that go along with it.  You are not their parent,  you are not their keeper. Had you they authority to control their actions you would have grabbed them by their arm and hauled them back to the ship with them kicking and screaming. Obviously you couldn't otherwise you would have. You did the next best thing - trying to get them to leave and finally leaving on your own. 


You were in a No Win situation.  Had you stayed with them and missed the ship's departure,  they'd blamed you anyway. 


If you're still on the cruise,  have fun,  do your own thing,  do your own port activities without parents (do group stuff), ignore their bad attitude. 


In the future, no cruises with your parents.  Save your money and go with friends that understand rules and deadlines
cruise ships are very clear, multiple times, that they wait for no one.  the only thing that would be accomplished had you waited with your parents is that they would have had to pay for a third expensive ticket.   please show this post to your parents so they can see how we all laugh at how entitled they are.
Nta
Would have cost them more if they also had to pay for you to fly with them!
NTA They should be thankful that they missed the ship by 45 minutes. Otherwise there would be YouTube footage of them running down the wharf.
My wife and I were on a cruise that stopped in Germany. The port was a long way from Berlin but there is a train station with service to Berlin right next to the dock.

Because getting transport to Berlin via the cruise line was twice as expensive as just buying a ticket we got our own.

All was great until we are waiting on the platform in Berlin for our train back. German trains are somewhat famous for being exactly on time but our departure time came and went with no train.

Turns out an unexploded WW2 era bomb was found near the track causing all trains on that line to be canceled.

Long story short, we got back to the ship about an hour after the sailing time but they waited for us because there were about 50 people in the same situation.

We have cruised a lot and this is the only time I have heard of a ship waiting.

NTA, your parents are delusional if they think you could have held the ship for them.
NTA the ship waits for no-one!!
NTA 

And I hope your parents got a good deal on that seashell bangle they were haggling on lmfao
NTA. A cruise will laugh at you if you ask it to delay for people that have absolutely no respect for other’s schedules.
“They wanted to know why I didn’t get the boat to wait for them.” 😂😂😂😂😂
NTA.
You are not the captain of the ship. Those ships also pay hefty fees to port and the fines for delays way exceed their cost of flights
NTA.

Cruise ship schedules are worked out MONTHS in advance. There is no “just tell the captain to wait”. You have a time that you MUST be back on board, or the ship leaves without you and catching up is YOUR responsibility.

I went on a river cruise some years ago, and there was a crash on the way back from a day excursion. We just barely made it in time, but if we hadn’t, the bus would have driven us to the next port.

You told your parents when you had to leave to get back on time. They didn’t listen and told you to go ahead. That’s on them
NTA. Cruise ships wait for no one!  Your parents have a huge entitlement problem. There was nothing you could have done. Shame on your parents for blaming you.
NTA. Your parents seem to think they are pretty special.
what? you should be pissed at them and they should be apologizing to YOU! NTA.
NTA your parents are entitled aholes who think the world revolves around them. You also warned them they had to be on time and you also told them when it was time to head back to the ship. You are more responsible and grown up than they are.
Nta.

Are you still on the cruise? Maybe a crew member can have a word?

It's totally not fair of them to make you miserable for their mistake.
NTA. If you had waited for them they would have been paying for 3 flights instead of 2 so I don’t get their logic there.
\*facepalm\* NTA
Nta. There are a lot of people being left behind because they feel that the ship will wait for them. Also it has became a spectacle for other passengers to watch people running to the docks waving frantically as the ship starts moving.
NTA Let me guess: your parents are normally late for things.
NTA. Ships keep to schedule unless it’s an excursion booked through the cruise ship itself, because they get charges extensive fees for not being out of port on time. They tell you so many times in the contract when you buy tickets, upon boarding, and the information seminars on the sea day prior to a port day. 

It’s. Not. That. Hard. If she knew what she was doing, why did they miss the ship and have to fly to the next stop?
NTA. I'd have just laughed at them for being so selfish that they think almost 4000 people will wait for them to shop. And then remind them to not be plonkers at the next port too.
OP, I would straight-up try to find a cruise employee on social media to explain this to them.  I am sure you can hunt someone down online who would send a message and explain how none of this is controllable by you.  You could read it to them. 



I think they are super embarrassed and decided to take it out on you.  That's crazy immature.


NTA
NTA cruise ships don’t wait for anyone. Show them a few videos about it on YouTube if they don’t believe you. They sound very irresponsible.
NTA. Your parents are idiots.
Used to work on a cruise ship, they incur serious and potentially multiple fees if they're delayed leaving port. They wouldn't wait unless a significant portion of the crew/passengers were for some reason delayed getting back on board. If you had tried to stop them leaving they may have tried to get a hold of your parents as a gesture of goodwill/safeguarding but even if they had got hold of them and they would be too delayed, the same thing would have happened. If you tried to stop it again, they would have literally removed you from the ship or made you come back on board without them regardless.

Cruise ship staff / shore excursion teams will tell you at point of disembarkation when you have to be back - and more often than not they give passengers a 15-30min deadline before their actual departure time because accidents can happen, so not much excuse on their part.

Get them to speak to the shore excursion team or one of the passenger-facing senior ship staff/cruise operator, who will explain all this. There was literally nothing you could do, they're just embarrassed and annoyed at the expense of their own making and taking it out on you, which is really crappy of them.
NTA. 

At first, I was wondering why an 18yo had made the demands you made, but by the end of it, I see why. You are parenting your parents, and they are irresponsible, self-centered AHs who not only didn't take responsibility for their own actions, they made your gift a miserable experience. 

Parent to parent, it serves them right an they ought to be ashamed of themselves. Or at least to grown enough to own it and laugh it off. 

Kid, go to college and never come back. When you find a life partner and if you decide to have kids, keep them at a distance. I can't imagine they'll be much better when it's a non-family member or a baby/small child that won't know better.
NTA

Hey OP take your parents to a worker on the ship and ask them if the ship would have waited

Have it be explained to them that it never would happen not for anyone
I’m sure this was stated on the ship several times. Meet their energy by reminding them how embarrassed you are by their entitled behavior. NTA.
INFO did you recommend to your parents to follow the schedule because they are often late?
LOL a cruise ship will wait on one couple?  Your parents are annoyed at the situation and are wanting to point a finger.  Sit them down and explain how your on vacation!  Lets go get some food!  Dont ruin it because they couldnt stick to a schedule.  This should be a great learning experience for them.. water under the bridge... 

  
The saying "Pier Runner" is normally used for people who are late by minutes for a cruise.  There are videos of people 100 yards from the boat and it leaves the dock.  The boat waits for nobody.
Show them this post please show them the world thinks they are unintelligent selfish lumps
NTA - Look up "late for cruise ship" on YouTube and you will get a bunch of videos showing that the ships will NOT wait, this is in no way your fault. Send that link to your parents. Sorry your vacation isn't turning out the way you'd hoped.
So it doesn’t matter who you are, those ships will not wait for you. I’ve worked 2 different cruise lines across 6 seasons and 5 different countries. I’ve sat through far too many disclaimers to boarding passengers about this very topic. You could hold the captain at gunpoint, but there is nothing in hell and creation short of the engines being destroyed that will keep the ship from leaving port.
 You are in fact not the asshole. Had you stayed behind that would have just an extra expense and a ruined cruise for you. Your parents should take some f***ing accountability for their neglect. Also maybe they should grow the hell up and realize that this all could have been avoided if they just had better time management. Every single tour I’ve been on I go to the port side to watch because there is always at least one person like your parents usually more. There was nothing you could do to help them at that point my friend. Except enjoy the rest of your cruise.
It’s your first reality check in adulthood: your parents can be childish too
NTA. I imagine your childhood was filled with many incidents such as these, but you were powerless to be able to do anything about it. Now that you are an adult, you are free to take control of your own actions and not have to suffer the repercussions of theirs. I bet that feels very liberating. I hope you enjoyed the cruise.
Geriatric millennial (1985) weighing in…

During my elementary school years, I remember often coming home hours after dark, to my mother asleep on the couch. The T.V. would be playing the 10pm PSA that quite literally reminded our parents of the time, and that they had children. 

I’ve held those moments close to my memory, so that I never force my own little loves to be parents before it is truly their turn to become parents. We encourage emotionally intelligent conversation, but absolutely reject any chance of letting our children take on parental roles. Full stop. End of story. Hard pass. No cap. And whatever else comes after all those cringey phrases.

It sounds to me like your parental units have been a (fill in your own adjective) catalyst for your maturity, and I applaud your decision to leave them behind. 

I’m sure they’re doing their level best to make you feel like you’re the jerk, but please know that that  comes from selfish adults being forced into self awareness… which is a deeply difficult and jarring space to navigate, especially if you’re unfamiliar with that whole dumpster fire of emotion. 

They have choices to make that are not your responsibility. You are not required to bear the consequences of their decisions. 

They may try to force the consequences onto your shoulders, but you clearly know better, or you would not have made the very wise choice to head back to the ship without them. 

I’m fairly certain that a large majority of the world of parents out here are standing ready and willing to step in to support you whenever necessary. 

Wegotchu.
Wow. I am so sorry. Please don't carry bad feelings about this, though. 

Do not blame yourself in any way. And, try to chalk their antics up to a humorous story. 

Reframe how you see it... hard as it is.

They got the you cruise and did a fail all on their own. They love you but are goofy.
^^^^AUTOMOD  ***Thanks for posting! This comment is a copy of your post so readers can see the original text if your post is edited or removed. This comment is NOT accusing you of copying anything. Read [this](https://www.reddit.com/r/AmItheAsshole/wiki/faq#wiki_post_deletion) before [contacting the mod team](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FAmItheAsshole)***

I graduated from high school back in December. As a gift my parents got me a cruise. It was also for my 18th birthday. It was also a family vacation. We usually stay at all inclusive resorts but I have always wanted to go on a cruise. 

I told my parents it was different and that if we went on excursions we had to follow the schedule no matter what. 

Well it was a week-long cruise and they would not head back to the ship when I said it was time to go. They were busy shopping and bargaining with the locals. I finally said that I was heading back to the ship. My mom waved me off. 

The missed the departure. By a lot. Like 45 minutes. They got ahold of me through WhatsApp. They wanted to know why I didn't get the boat to wait for them.  

I wanted to scream that they were not going to inconvenience 3,998 people because two could not understand what a schedule was. 

They ended up having to fly to the next port from there and it was expensive. They are pissed at me for leaving them behind. 

I don't know what I was supposed to do. They literally told me that they knew what they were doing. 

I wish I had never asked for this.  They are making me miserable because I left without them. 

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/AmItheAsshole) if you have any questions or concerns.*
No, you are NTA. 
Your parents are dumbdumbs. Hahaha I hope someone got video of them running along the pier gahaha
If you stayed with them they would have had to pay for an extra plane ticket and then it would have been even more expensive.
Sigh.
There would've been two other very possible outcome:
1. You staying behind too, increasing the cost to next port by 50%
2. Them listening to you, no problem, all aboard.

You SHOULD tell them they are deflecting, but if they insist you would've stop the boat successfully, tell them that before they leave this current port, you'll be in your room, and have them try to stall the ship for 45 minutes to see if you could've done the same.

If the ship waits, admit you too we're in the wrong, as you could've done the same. If the more likely thing happens, and it takes off "without you", they will hopefully shut up about it.

NTA
NTA.  And please do show them this thread. We of reddit can and will tell them the errors of their way here.
NTA and your parents are hilariously delusional to think an ENTIRE cruiseship is gonna wait for 2 people without time management
NTA  and not your responsibility to Parent your Parents. 
I second the comment that said hope they read the thread.
NTA if you are still on the cruise, ask the crew to talk to them and explain how the ship would leave 100 people behind in the blink of an eye.
NTA - you warned them and since they are adults and should be able to adhere to a schedule without mollycoddling. You managed it perfectly well so they only have themselves to blame.

Unfortunately I imagine they’d be making you miserable regardless of where you went as they sound insufferably entitled to think a ship of a few thousands people would wait on them.
Congrats on being more grown-up than your parents.
NTA - WTF were you meant to do about it? Barricade yourself in the captain's deck and threaten them? Push on the bow of the boat with all your might to try to stop it from moving? /s. Like what did they think you could actually do about it? That's just madness. Your parents are selfish and dumb (in this instance).
Damn, sorry for you, your parents sound like proper boomers.
If you had waited, they'd have to pay for 3 tickets instead of 2, which would have been even more expensive.
Lmaoooo. Do they think a plane would also hold up for 45 mins for them? NTA. FAFF. 
NTA, but I’m adding this to the reasons I won’t go on a cruise… I’m imagining trying to wrangle my kids and husband with a brain injury back to port on time and it doesn’t sound like a relaxing adventure!
If you had waited for them, they would have had to buy 3 tickets to the next island instead of two. You saved them $$.
So they would have preferred to pay airfare for 3 people instead of just 2?
>They wanted to know why I didn't get the boat to wait for them.

INFO: were you the captain of the ship?

jk, NTA
If you had stayed with them that would be a third plane flight ticket they'd have needed to get. You've done absolutely nothing wrong they're just mad you're smarter than they are
NTA. 

If anything, you saved them the cost of an additional plane ticket.
NTA plus you saved them money on a 3rd flight to the next port.
You saved them money on a third flight by not holding the boat
NTA “Tell me exactly how I could have stoped the boat from leaving? Go tell the captain? Where would I have found them? Refuse to get on? They made it very very clear they do not wait. I made it clear to you they would not wait. Even as I left you in the market you still did not follow the very strict rules and now you are punishing me for following them when it was all on your for not following them. Your choices are the reason you had to pay that money. Your shopping was more important that then and entire cruise of people, and the very tight schedule the ship has to enter and exit its ports. Planes do not wait, why would you think a ship would? You are mad at the situation you created but you won’t take any accountability instead, you’re blaming me. You ruined this experience for me by being selfish and entitled.”
Sounds like you saved them the price of your flight ticket
If you waited behind for them, then they would have to pay for a third flight to the next port. Rather than only paying for two. They should be thanking you for being timely and saving them money in theory.
Congratulations for being the only adult in your family.
As much as I want to encourage OP to show the parents how stupid they are by seeing this post, I can only imagine they'll punish OP more.

Hope you get a big break, find a good job and can move out ASAP.

NTA.
Maybe, MAYBE if they were in a life threatening situation the cruise would have waited. They were SHOPPING and they wanted 4,000 people to just wait for them?! For 45 minutes? That is entitled and absolutely ridiculous. OP is absolutely not an asshole. OP’s parents need to grow up.
Your parents are garbage. 



There's no advice to give other than to move out sooner than later.
Your parents are idiots. NTA.
This should be on r/boomersbeingfools
NTA. There are literally TikTok accounts dedicated to videos of people running after the ships when they try this. All that would have happened if you waited would have been they would have had to buy three plane tickets.
NTA!
Didn't the cruise director or someone talk to your parents?  If not, I would speak with an official.  Tell them that your parents are upset that the ship did not wait for them.  And ask the official to speak with your parents about ship procedures.  

Hopefully the official will be pissed enough to berate your parents for their entitlement
Your parents suck 🤣🤣
It wasn’t even that they were late because of an excursion. They were shopping, which could absolutely have been stopped at any point. The OP told them during the planning stages that they had to abide by cruise times, and again while they were shopping, and they still ignored the OP. OP is the responsible adult and the parents are the AHs.
They should be happy you made it back on the boat on time so they didn't have to buy you a plane ticket to the next port as well.
Tell them they should be glad you didn’t wait as it would have been even more expensive for them to fly three….
Please take them to the front desk and have the front desk people explain how cruises work.
NTA, sorry you are having to adult your parents.
Clearly NTA, the only ones are your parents for acting entitled. There are plenty of videos showing people being left at the docks as their cruise ship leaves because they thought they were special.
NTA you actually saved them money because if you stayed, it would have been 3 airplane tickets to the next port instead of 2. Your parents sound like my mum. Entitlement to highest degree.
Did your parents think of thanking you for saving them the additional airfare expense had you missed the ship too?
"They are pissed at me for leaving them behind."

They left THEMSELVES behind!  How utterly STUPID.  A cruise liner ain't waiting extra time for TWO PEOPLE.

NTA.
1) Every adult, whether they like it or not, know planes, trains, ships, busses, ferries, etc. run on a schedule. Be on time and life is good.  Show up late and your life is immediately complicated.  2) If your parents thought those plane tickets to join you were expensive, they would have paid more if you hadn't rejoined the ship on time.  3) Holding you responsible for this is 100% wrong.  The captain would not have held the ship for your parents no matter how much you may have tried to plead with them to wait.  It just isn't done.  4) I'm sorry you're going through this and be assured you acted like a responsible adult.  Your parents have some growing up to do.
Your parents are idiots.  It sounds like, even at the young age of 18, you've fallen far from the tree.  Be grateful, congratulations and happy birthday.
If you had stayed with them then they would have had to pay for 3 flights. So really, you saved them money.
NTA. Your parents are entitled idiots who need to grow up.
NTA, you were 100% right - But this will be a good training opportunity for you for marriage. There is a difference between being right and keeping the peace. Let me say that again -> Being right isn't the most important thing when it comes to relationships.....  They are your parents... if you're not ready to completely bail on them, sometimes, just saying "oh, ok.. i see your point" and maybe a half hearted "I'm sorry" is worth it, just so you can get on with your life. Say what you gotta say, but then move on. Is this the hill you want to die on?  Do you want them to kick-in $$ for some college? down payment on a house as a wedding present? Welcome to adulthood!
FYI your story got picked up by people magazine. Nta to keep the bots happy
Your parents are categorically wrong. 

How did you turn out so well with parents like that.
They should thank you they didn’t have to pay an extra air line ticket to get to the next port because you had common sense enough to follow a schedule. It was in honor of your graduation but it sounds like the are gas lighting the heck out of you.

  They should be grateful for you, that you didn’t get stuck like they did, not act like a 5 year old and blame you for being the only one who did what they were supposed to and didn’t have to suffer the consequences.
NTA - it sounds like your parents are way too entitled and think rules do not apply to them. They should thank you for going without them or they would have had to purchase 3 tickets to fly to the next port 😂😂
The tide keeps it own schedule
LOL NTA, but they sure are! Must have given you whatever intelligence they had, because you're the one who acted like an adult. And for them to be petty and make you miserable after THEY screwed up? That's just gross, really, and completely pathetìc. Tell them to grow up, and that the entire Internet is laughing at them. Such entitled behavior is rare, but extra loud. 


Cruise ships, ferry's, planes etc, they're not on YOUR time. You make it there, or you suffer the consequences of being left behind. 
Nope that’s their problem. They also sound toxic. Maybe distance yourself?
Grab a dictionary. Sit with your parents and open it to the listing of words that begin with “C”. Then look up “consequence”. Have them memorize it.
The crew would have laughed at you if you asked them to wait. 
Haha. “Why didn’t you get them to wait for us.” That is fantastic. Please don’t grow up to entitled morons like your parents.
Congratulations !! You post make it to 'Entitlement of the Seas' on FB ! !    

Tell your parents that you actually SAVED them money ! Because if you would have stayed, they would needed to buy a THIRD 'very expensive' airline ticket
Google - cruise ship leaves passengers behind - then show them. Story after story of the same thing happening to others who didn't make it back before departure from Port. They are lucky they were able to fly to next port, many others have been stranded or worse.
Was my exact same thought
That's what I was thinking- one less plane ticket they had to purchase. My guess is they would have blamed OP if they had stayed with them too.
Seriously. And there is zero chance they could have gotten the ship to wait. None.
Boomer arrogance is wild. 

They used to get hit as discipline. Now no one hits them, so they think they can do no wrong.
Exactly. If OP had waited around in a futile attempt to stop the ship from leaving, they'd just be paying for three plane tickets to the next port instead of two.
Exactly what I thought😂🤷🏻‍♀️
Oh it’s made very clear on the ship.

I’ve seen them wait under 5 minutes when they saw a family clearly RUNNING to our ship. Everyone cheered for them as they got on. But it was obvious they were running to our ship, the ship was all packed up with just the gangway down, and the crew were yelling and cheering at them, too.

But otherwise if the ship says it departs at 5:00, it is pulling away at 5:01 or 5:02!
I’ve only done one, but they make it crystal clear. In addition to the information being easily available everywhere on the ship, the crew told every person disembarking that the ship would be leaving port at an exact time.
You can see a cruise terminal from my sister’s living room. You can also see the people arriving late…
I've never been on one and I know this. I thought everyone knows this. Do not be late. 
NTA. They should be glad they only had to shell out for two plane tickets instead of three.
I don’t think they respect much…
This. NTA. I’ve been on a cruise. They make it crystal clear that the ship waits for no one. Parents fucked around & found out.
Exactly. It is no different to a plane, they will not and cannot wait for anyone. Just imagine if they waited for all those people to trickle on when they felt like it, you’d never go anywhere.

Congratulations on being the only true adult in the family, even if you are only just one! NTA
I notice that OP put in a line about telling their parents they'd absolutely have to stick to the schedule which leads me to think that OP's parents do this a lot and are some of those entitled people who think schedules are for peasants and they're too super special and better than everyone else to bother with such things.
Our ship waited for us because my husband called them and told I had been injured, we were at the local hospital, and on our way.

The ship waited about 45 mins for us and met us with a wheelchair, a doctor, and a nurse with a blanket and a robe since I was still in my bikini.

They wheeled me up and the ship left immediately. Like the ship pulled away from the dock the moment they pulled the walkway up after my wheelchair was on board.

I was ever so thankful they waited. It was very stressful and I was on crutches for the remainder of our cruise and the following eight weeks.

Stay away from jet skis lol
OP’s parents haven’t got a clue. Cruise ships are very clear on deadlines to return to the ship and OP reminded them of this but they still stayed ashore. OP, tell your parents to have a word with the captain so he can give them his personal number to tell him when they are going to be very late back (😂😂😂😂). Seriously , OP tell your parents to talk to the captain about deadlines and no one delays the cruise ship from setting off. They are blaming you for their foolishness.
If the ship doesn’t depart on time the company faces massive fines and will be delayed to the next port and it’s a massive knock on effect. It’s all explained when you board and every time you disembark
Sounds like OP is the adult and the parents are the two kids.
OP saved them money by not missing the boat--they only had to buy two tickets instead of three.
They pay a lot to be docked. Cruise waits only for their own excursions.... anything else  nope.
This. Cruise ships will be fined an insane sum if thru not leave their Dock on time.
Your parents are idiots.
Send them articles of how cruises have left port with the kids in the kid center while parents are left on shore. 
NTA. If you'd waited for them you'd have been stuck flying too. You don't control the cruise schedule. You warned them. It's between them and the cruise line. And it is their fault.
They even make a "get back to the boat you bout to get left" announcement to the dock at last call cause my friend's brother was in it once. Standing on the balcony watching the stragglers run for last call is one of the best parts of port day!
This reminds me of when I did a 3 day guided bus tour of England 10ish years ago. Roughly 3/4 of the participants were Chinese tourists, which was almost equally comprised of late teen/young adults, and seniors. 

The seniors did not speak any English, so at the end of the first day when we're being dropped off at our hotel one of the tour guides asked one of the younger Chinese tourists to let the non English speaking tourists know to be on the bus at 8:00 am the next day.

The next day rolls around, and everyone is on the bus by 8:00 am except for all of the senior Chinese tourists. At 8:15am the tour guide asked one of the younger Chinese tourists where all of the seniors are. Apparently, the seniors found it insulting that a younger person was telling them at what time they needed to be on the bus and decided that they would arrive when they chose to do so.

The tour guide was having none of this and instructed the bus driver to drive off and carry on the tour, leaving a group of 15-20 people who don't speak English at the hotel.
They are being ridiculous. You are not the captain of the ship. You told them they had to get back and they refused to listen.  It is entirely their fault that they missed the boat and they only have themselves to blame. It is good that at 18 you understand that actions have consequences. Too bad they would rather try to blame you. Tell them,”It is time for you to stop trying to blame me for your poor decision making. You refused to listen to me, and you learned your lesson.”
Maybe, to get the rents off their back, OP could take them to one of the officers on board or the information desk and have the officer tell the parents that no matter how much OP begged, the ship would have left. There was 0 things OP could do. 

Airplanes don’t wait for people and that’s only a few hundred people. Ships with over a thousand people would laugh in OPs face if they asked for them to wait.
It isnt just the ships have a schedule to keep.  

When ships come in and out of port/docks can be dependent upon tides, when other ships are scheduled to arrive/depart, etc.  

Your parents are arrogant and disrespectful of everyone else's time....not just the other 3,998 passengers on the cruise ship they had passage, but also the cruise line workers & staff, and the docking staff - and the other cruises delayed in docking at every subsequent port of call that would be delayed because of their arrogance.  

Every passenger that chooses to leave the ship for excursions during ports of call is qarned that they need to be back on-board by x-time and that they will be left behind if not.  They are warned the ship will not wait for them.

OP is NTA.  Your parents most assuredly are.
OP saved the parents the cost of a plane ticket.
Also dock fees are mega expensive you can't pay to have them stick around.
In the island I live, there's a schedule always planned for 5 years ahead with every single cargo carrier and cruise that's coming, because there's too many and they need to be organised, if a cruise ship is late by 45 min, might as well not even try to dock and move on to the next stop, the exceptions are only made for cargo carriers.

If a cruise still tries to dock, the Port Master will pop a vein in his forehead and say he will personally punch a hole in the hull with his bare fist. Following a chew out to the cruise's captain and his company and embarrass them over every public and private radio frequencies available to him. It is really funny to hear when it happens.

So basically, yeah... No way a ship will delay their parting by almost an hour for just 2 people
Retired Merchant Marine officer here. No ship will wait an indefinite, undisclosed amount of time for a passenger. The increase in docking fees, and other considerations, such as a change of schedule for the tugs, could end up costing them thousands of dollars. This happened to us on a ship I was on in a port in Greece, a delay that is, and it cost the ship a couple tens of thousands of dollars in the rescheduling and the rental of dock gear such as Yokohama fenders.
Absolutely NTA.  Wanna bet the parents showed up on time for their flight?  Why would they think a ship isn’t bound by the same schedule logistics.
That they are blaming their responsible offspring for their irresponsible behavior is disgusting.  

OP, you did your due diligence explaining the schedule to them and reminding them in the moment that it was time to go back.  The ship wasn't yours to control and their expectation of inconveniencing thousands of people on their whim is beyond entitled.  They did this to themselves and should be ashamed of trying to blame you for their own failure.
Yep.  Only thing they will wait for is excursions *they* sold, as they don't want to leave 20 or 30 people behind/its more on them when they control the bus too.
When I was in Malta I went to these gardens that overlook the docks where all the cruise ships line up. A local told me that one of his favorite past times was to watch tourists throw fits because their cruise didn't wait for them. Adult tantrums on the daily. Apparently there's a good market for local boat owners who shuttle them to the next stop at a high price. 

There is absolutely nothing honest OP could have said to get them to hold the ship. But being able to follow basic instructions and having good time management will serve them well in college and their profession
Yeah that's the insane part there's no way op could have prevented this
OP, I highly recommend the book “Adult Children of Emotionally Immature Parents” by Lindsay C Gibson. 

Your parents showed lack of planning, and then lack of understanding of consequences. Theyre acting like entitled children who cannot accept that they fucked around and found out. 

It never gets better btw. They don’t somehow learn to plan better or listen to you no matter how many times this happens. Your best course of action is to set your boundaries clearly and to make sure they know that you are going places separately. That you will NOT be keeping track of where they are and if they’re late. 

I’ve been married twice 18 years apart and my parents were late to both of my weddings. Both venues were within a 10 minute drive of their place. You’d think they’d learn in 18 years but no. They were also recently 1.5hrs late to a 2hr event for their grandson’s birthday.
even if OP staged their drowning a cruise ship most likely would not wait that long
NTA. Not only is it on your itinerary, the little daily info paper, announced when docked overhead (like 5 times), but they tell you as you swipe your card to disembark on the island. This was 100% on them.
It's also just common sense. If literally no one had reminded them of the departure, they would still be expected to keep an eye on the time. They give out reminders/notifications as a courtesy, not as a replacement for basic adult competency.
That was my thought as well. OP saved them money since they insisted on not returning with OP.
I’m surprised this isn’t higher. It was my first thought! There is no way the ship was going to wait so two tickets is better than 3!
NTA!  This was the response I was looking for.  So the parents WANTED to pay for 3 expensive plane tickets to get back to the boat instead of 2???  They are just mad that they made fools of themselves!   Edited to correct a grammar mistake.
Same. I wouldn’t even explain it to them. I would have someone else do it. Ask them to pull up policy. I would ask the nice cruise official to explain if there was anything you could have done to prevent it. Then just avoid parents for the rest of the trip on the boat. Plenty of separate activities to do.
Yep, OP you're young enough to pull the "Oh, I feel so bad because I didn't have the ship wait for my parents and now they are upset with me. How do I get the ship to stay for my parents at the next stop?" 

Then let the official person explain.
I was thinking the same thing. If they are cranky at dinner/breakfast/whatever I would tell those around us "sorry, not your fault. They are mad at me for not delaying departure while they were shopping"
If they are quietly being rude I would be very tempted to say all of the things everyone is saying here in a slightly louder than necessary voice.
And if I were the official-looking employee, I'd then make a helpful announcement over the PA system or whatever reminding "all" passengers that the cruise ship will not wait for passengers who are late returning to the ship. If I were feeling a little petty, I might preface the reminder by noting that "two passengers" had returned to dock after the ship had departed and had to fly to the next port to rejoin the cruise.
Narcissists are never wrong
That’s a great idea. Ask to speak to the captain and then watch them get lectured for an hour.
BTW are your parents boomers???
This is literally the only time they will wait. Tour that was organized by the ship.
That is the only way they will wait. It is how they get people to pay double for the same trip you could buy on land.
Yeah, that's the only time they'll wait. That's why you want to do excursions through the ship. It gives you a little extra security so you can get back on the ship if things get delayed. I've seen it once where a couple of excursions were an hour late, I was confused about how they were so delayed until I saw they were 9 hour excursions. We were only supposed to be at dock for 8 hours.
They would only wait if the cost of flying that group was greater than the fines they would have to pay for waiting.
they only wait for this SOMEtimes. i was just on a disney cruise and they waited for a disney excursion that was a little late back to the ship. another cruiser explained that they were lucky because they’d been on a different dcl cruise where a disney excursion was running too late back to the ship to make it. so they had stateroom hosts gather things from people’s staterooms that they would need (passports, clothes, etc) and then other cast members got off the ship and waited for the bus to return. dcl put them up for the night and flew them to the next port but there were literally people who had left their kids on the ship.

don’t worry, the kids were fine. apparently they got a bunch of princesses and other characters and arranged a sleepover in the kids club for all the kids whose parents were stuck at the port. but the parents were obviously freaking out during this time.

so yeah, i always make sure an excursion i take doesn’t end too close to all aboard time. i need ample time to get back to the ship. shit stresses me out lol
These types of people cannot connect dots or draw parallels. 

They’re children in adult costumes
There's always a big sign at the disembarkation point which tells you the latest time you have to be back on board. If a cruise ship is delayed in a port, it costs them mega-bucks.

I've done loads of cruises and seen people left behind on a regular basis (once in Ukraine, goodness knows how they got to the next port of call and they also probably didn't have their passports with them). Sometimes they're running up the jetty as the ship is slowly pulling away. No dear, it's not a taxi. You don't have any rights to choose your own departure time.
Omg anxiety memory unlocked, my mom would leave me in line after unloading everything from the cart to "grab one more thing" while I stood in complete fear that she wouldn't return in time to pay.
Why did this comment send a chill down my spine 😭 I have great parents, my mom just has ADHD and zero sense of time management, but I can’t even count the number of times this has happened to me. 💀 I would always let people go ahead of me one by one instead of holding up the line, but then after you do it a few times people ignore you and just bypass you completely, and then you have to advocate for yourself and insist that you are still in line, when you’re like 3 feet tall and have no money and no idea when you’ll be ready to go. Grown adults would argue with me like it’s my fault, and then just kick me out of the line, and then my mom would get back when I’m standing off to the side and look at me like I’m dumb like “what happened? I told you to get in line”, as if I just forgot to do it. I hate it here. 😭
Exactly my thoughts. Those parents didn't just start this behavior.  It just finally caught up to them and because their child wasn't like them, they only had to purchase 2 plane tickets instead of 3.
I remember this. They announced it over the PA system and passengers cheered.
I vaguely remember being on a flight out of Heathrow, someone had missed it and their friends were arguing with cabin crew because they refused to wait - I think one of the flight attendants said the airline incurs a penalty per minute they’re late pushing back from the gate. Can’t remember the dollar amount but it wasn’t cheap.

Would not surprise me if cruise ships using busy ports are subject to similar rules.
Better yet show them those YouTube videos (there are a TON of them) of people missing cruise ships. It’s an extremely well-documented thing. The boat. WILL. leave.
And even if they might have waited for "my parents are on their way and they'll be here in 5 minutes" [they wouldn't], they certainly aren't going to wait for "my parents aren't back yet and I don't know when they'll get here."
Greetings from Berlin! Times have changed since then, because the very good reputation of the Deutsche Bahn train system (punctual, reliable) has been tarnished by regular mishaps. LOTS of irregularities and major delays, so the general German population is pissed! Still far more reliable than in many other places in the world but not good enough for the natives!
Love this.


The parents were throwing a temper tantrum. 
Keeping peace,Being right.I understand that wholeheartedly,as Im in a LTR.I think that that is designed(?)  MOSTLY for the M in a M/F relationship,due to the inherent dynamic between M & F,& for any other ROMANTIC partnerships,in general.Anyway,I definitely dont agree with that premise,in this particular situation.

*'They are your parents'*..So what,OP is an individual adult,AS WELL..*'If you're not ready to completely bail on them,sometimes,just saying "oh, ok..i see your point" and maybe a half hearted "I'm sorry" is worth it'*..How so? One must have self respect.You DO NOT apologize to a gaslighter,also,parents have ZERO point to see here,wheres the compromise that you speak of? Its alll loss.OP not only didnt do 'a negative', but also did the perfectly righteous thing,by keeping to schedule,= all positvity.*'Do you want them to kick-in $$ for some college? down payment on a house as a wedding present? Welcome to adulthood!'*.Boooo.

That sounds EXACTLY how an abused person behaves toward their abuser,in domestic relations,when the abuser is the sole breadwinner....Hear me out... Woman regularly beaten,berated & having bad days @ work taken out on her.

She knows for absolute sure,that she did no wrong,& also does the correct things.Shes not READY to *'Completely Bail'* on him ONLY cuz she fears him & is broke.She believes she needs him(you reinforce this idea).

Yo,check out the parallels.

*They are your parents* = *Stay & work it out,thats your husband*

*Oh,ok..i see your point,Im sorry* = *Id better agree,so as not to anger him further*

*just so you can get on with your life* = *so you can diffuse the current abuse*

*Do you want them to kick-in $ for college/house?* = *Girl,you are trippin,he takes care of you*

Why couldnt OP stand up for themselves,& also not bail,probably get more respect,have bond uncompromised & still recieve those blessings?

Why must there be a conflict or subservience?

*Say what you gotta say,but then move on*.But if that happens,then OP would be 'right',& we cant have that,can we?

Adulthood does not consist of not speaking your mind,when truth abounds,& being disrespected & biting your tongue,in order to keep someone in your life/to get worldly things.Every disagreement mustnt lead to a war,that you automatically think youre gonna lose.If youre scared,be scared.I personally gain respect when its necessary to stand up,& this is 1 of those times.So are you saying, you would be comfortable being known, seriously,throughout your adult life as *shiteatingsaundra*? You 100% dont eat that,yet its fine for the world to believe,accept & carry you accordingly,cuz you dont wanna ruffle any feathers & be likeable? Im not saying to push back on everything as a child would,& force your righteousness down ppls throats,but c'mon....plz dont teach any women,especially, with that concept.

Kinda long,but its for OPs sake.

I invite you to help me understand your perspective,cuz nah.
What’s worse????
There was a news story within the last two months where people missed the boat, got taken by the local government to get on, weren’t allowed, flew to the next port, and then the boat still wouldn’t let them board at that port. These parents are lucky they got back on.
Right? They warn you about this strenuously on every cruise, and it still happens at every port.
I’m on a cruise right now. One of my favourite things to do is watch people frantically run up the pier to not miss the ship.
Look at pier runner videos on YouTube.  Some cruise goers make it a sport to jeer and taunt people running  late for the ship.
They even have a name, pier runners
every cruise channel on youtube says DO NOT BE LATE and that the ship will not wait for you unless you are on one of their excursions.
Totally true. Whole YT genre of pier running videos with the whole ship laughing at late idiots.
There was some passengers who got stranded in an African port, I think, because they were cavalier and assumed the ship would wait for them. There were a lot of articles and news stories about them, making it seem that the ship could have waited for them, but whenever these were online, a lot of us -- not just me -- replied that the ship and the cruise line weren't at fault, but these passengers were.
Tardy people exist in all generations. So do people who think the rules are just some silly formality and aren't something that applies to them.
I have seen them wait 20 minutes, under the ship excursion guarantee, to be fair. If you book an experience through the cruise line, they have a "guarantee" they will wait (within reason, otherwise they fly you to the next port at their expense).
Our last cruise I saw a family running up the pier as the boat was underway.  Kinda felt bad for them but everyone else had been back aboard long enough to get drinks and watch them from the bar.
Actually some cruise ships will give you an hour or more to get back on the ship before it leaves. They will tell everyone to be back on the ship by 4pm but it will only leave the dock at 5:30. Even with this huge buffer,  I still saw people running to the ship late.
I’ve seen a couple of videos of people running and passengers cheering them on and/ or laughing
This is the bit that baffles me - even if OP had tried/asked, I highly doubt the staff would have even considered delaying departure. 

Did OP’s parents expect him to kick down the door to the bridge and commandeer the ship until they finished shopping?
Yesterday i got in the bus. There were a quite few people getting in so it took a bit. I was the second to last. The guy behind me was on his phone. He had moved with the line but was just... Standing there? Looking away from the bus.

The bus driver closed the doors. That sound made the guy turn. He was motioning. He clearly wanted in. The driver drove off. 

This was a bus. Wtf do they expect a cruise to do.
Do they think if they arrive late to the airport the plane will wait around for a couple hours? This is not rocket science. It's a mode of transport, you get there on time
I was on a cruise once where the included bus tour out to a historical site was running behind schedule. I was so scared the ship would leave without those of us who went on that tour. It did delay departure ever so slightly, but not by 45 minutes, I think because it was a bus full of tourists on an included tour and not just a couple of idiots who ignored the time and carried on shopping.
they will wait if their busses/tours provided by the company are delayed. I work with tourists on cruise ships. I once had a horrible accident on the highway delay us by 2 hours. I knew we were scheduled to return an hour and a half early. I called the cruise line and explained what had happened. they told me they had a few busses that were delayed as well. they were planning on departing 20 minutes after their busses returned. This relieved my guests and myself.
“Time and Tide wait for no man.” — Chaucer
A bus wouldn’t wait. What made the parents think a cruise ship would be any different?!
I love watching the TikTok videos of people on cruises capturing the runners trying to make it back to the ship
By going back to the ship, OP saved their parents the cost of a flight.


NTA.   They should thank you.
OP saved his parents money by being back in the ship on time. They didn’t have to buy him a plane ticket to fly to the next port.
There are entire YouTube channels dedicated to videos of people being late and not getting on their cruise ships.
i’ve been on multiple cruises (8+), the boat has waited for a late passenger exactly ONCE, and even then only for like 20 minutes. someone from my party may or may not have crashed a moped into a ditch and gashed up their leg (you could see BONE) and came back to the boat like 20 minutes after departure and they let her on because they had been aware of the medical issue since a few hours ago when she was in the ER.
I bet they won't make that mistake again.
> the ship waits for no one

This is like the #1 rule for cruises and if you fuck it up, yeah, now you're on your own.
I've never been on a cruise (I'm terrified of them) and even I would know that ship isn't gonna wait. Sitting in port is costing them money. An incalcuable amount of money. Aside from port fees, there is fuel spent idling instead of making it to the next port, as well as extra fuel they would burn up to go faster. Plus, casinos and shops aren't operating. 

Bottom line, the plan tickets to the next port are cheaper than for the ship to make you pay for the cost of holding them up
I would never go on a cruise, it's just not my thing. But if I did you bet your arse I'd be back an hour before departure, drink in hand, in a nice spot to watch the pier runners. I've seen a few vids of it on tiktok and not gonna lie it is HILARIOUS. People really cannot fathom that a cruise ship will not wait for them 😂
They will wait for the captain and the doctor and that is it.
I imagine if they’re about to shove off and can *see* you running down the dock, they might wait an extra minute or so, but that’s probably all the leeway they’d give
Yup, the only time a cruise will wait is if multiple people are stuck from an excursion. Like say fifty people are on an excursion and the bus broke down and they have to send another one to pick them up. That’s pretty much the only instance in which they will do so. 
So they didn’t believe all the warnings about returning to the ship on time and then blamed you for not making the ship wait.  NTAH
I’m sure every time they fly, the plane waits for them, too. 🙄
I've done the cruise ship thing. The whole time I went on an excursion I was stressing about getting back on time. The next couple ports I just hung around near the boat haha the stress was too much.
OP should remind their parents of that and suggest that they saved them money by being back on time so that they didn't have to fly 3 people to the next port.
In the end it's still poor OP who has to deal with the brunt of their anger instead of enjoying their grad trip. You're NTA OP, they were lucky you had the right mind to get back i there on time.
They will wait only if an excursion ran by the cruise line is late. I was on one that ended up 90 minutes late because the bus broke down. We were all super stressed, but they didn’t leave us!
Lol. You wouldn't be able to plan anything ever again. Train delays are annoying as is, imagine if they accommodate every passenger who want to buy a last cup of coffee at the station.
The difference being you had good reason to delay, not out-of lateness. 

That's good service.
That’s quite different — it sounds like they made the decision to wait as a courtesy but it was for a valid medical reason. Not because you were poor at time management. 
The one cruise we went on, a guy had a heart attack or something while on an excursion on the cruise line's Island. They came in to the beach hot on jet skis, with the guy on a rescue sled behind. The guy fell off the sled about 100ft from the beach, and the jet ski drivers had to dive in and fish him out. They got him to a jeep on the beach, and frantically tried CPR for a couple minutes until giving up. The guy's wife was stranded out on one of the jet skis, floating idle without a driver. Departure from the island was delayed several hours.


The spa bill was still more personally traumatic...
It's the middle of the night right now twice I read that as "... a wheelchair, a doctor, and a nurse with a bikini.."
Which cruise line? Sounds like a shout out for good hospitality is needed!
Aww! What thoughtful people to bring a robe and a blanket <3 
I imagine the wheelchair, Dr, and Nurse were possibly a legal necessity (will be happily corrected if I'm wrong) but those last two touches were just plain lovely.
As the man said: time and tide wait for no man
Not usually delayed to the next port, unless it’s a real stretch itinerary. 

We’ve been on trips where we left at say 4, had dinner, went to bed - and woke up to find that we went *back* to port in the night, dropped off a sick passenger, then doubled back on our route and still made it on time. 

Most ships sail at snail speed - it’s more fuel efficient and lets the stabilizers work better. They can haul ass when they need to! And hauling ass at 3 or 4 am it mostly doesn’t matter if the stabilizers are doing jack, almost every passenger is in bed. 
Also, often the casino can't open until they're outside of the port. That's a bunch of money the cruise line is missing out on.
YES!  The parents should be thanking OP
Not just that, in a lot of harbors late departure means fines on top of the docking fees
Way more than the plane tickets cost I can tell you that
They're just pissed that their child is smarter than they are. It's not about not being able to make the ship wait, it's that their child had enough foresight to return to the ship as scheduled and they did not.
It's such a weird and hilarious genre of weirdo.  "OK, everyone act like a complete lunatic for no reason and with no explanation, assume others will somehow just figure out what the hell it is we're doing and what we want, and when that doesn't happen, devolve into hysterical infants."

Just **use your words**, you absolute ninnies
Completely agree that OP is in the clear here, but this is also a good case for a small lie along the lines of "I begged them to wait but they absolutely refused".
> Adult Children of Emotionally Immature Parents

This is the 2nd time I've seen this mentioned today. Holy Baader-Meinhof
We shorten Baby Boomers to Boomers when we should be using Babies
Amazing book! Just read it and had the consistent feeling it was a history of my family.
This book was game changing for me. Thanks for recommending it here.
Some parents just plain suck. It’s disgusting to think they are gaslighting their child for being able to understand rules. It’s not that hard. I hope the Op is able to move out asap. And OP can finally have a break from these two children.
As I recall this is displayed prominently on the gangway, in the daily ship news and at the port talks.
Yeah, this is only going to get OP in further shit for being insolent, let's be real. "How dare you embarrass us," etc., etc. Not worth the doubling the trouble.
Nah - she’s 18 so they’re probably your generation.
We did a cruise around Italy. The only cruise organised tour we did was to Pisa and Florence, because we knew it was difficult to get there from the boat and didn't want to miss the sailing back. You pay more than if you do it yourself, but the safety net is there.
Even then, they might not wait but they will cover the costs of getting you back on board at a following port.

I always tell my clients to pay the premium for the cruise-sponsored excursions or make sure you are back on board no less than an hour before all-aboard.
And often, they don't even wait for those. They just transport the late passengers to the next port. The cruise ships are paying money for every minute they are sitting at the port. Unless the excursion included a huge number of passengers, it's cheaper to leave on schedule and get them to the next port via alternate transportation. They sure as hell aren't waiting for 2 people who can't tell time. Op can just call the cruiseline on speaker with her parents in the room and ask them if they will hold the ship at port. Maybe if they hear directly from the cruiseline that was never going to happen, they'll shut up about it already.
I sell a tour that is similar to what the cruise ship offers. I tell people that If I'm delayed by something, it'll be delaying the cruise ship as well. I have enough time padding that I can get back to the ship even If I need to call a competitor if my vehicle breaks down.
Whenever I leave the ship I take my passport with me juuuuust in case.


I am never back less than an hour before the ship is due to sail 😂
Oh my gosh.  my grandma…. Who I’ve since realized is a narcissist.  She would have been OP’s parents! I remember stores closing and I would be in tears thinking I was going to be locked in a store all night.
This is when I played the uno reverse card and told my mom I could grab it since I was faster. All I had to do was give her a reason to trust me and not abuse my power. I still remember those days of sprinting through the aisles to get that last item. Good times.
Do you happen to have a link to the video? I'm looking to fall down a rabbit hole of schadenfreude.
Wouldn't it be amazing if one of those videos was of them?
My cousin missed her cruise departure, so she got a hotel for the night and flew to the airport closest to the next stop the following day.  She didn’t realise the port was 3 hours from the airport and jumped in a taxi.  After 45 minutes she realised the taxi fare was already at all the money she had, so she got him to stop and let her out.  She then hitchhiked to the port, which took her hours, and by the time she got there, the ship had left.

So she was stranded again, this time without any money.  Her parents had to buy her a ticket home and then collect her stuff when the cruise reached home.
EXPELLED!
There are definitely some places that are safer to be stranded than others. Plus if you didn't plan ahead, you may not have the documentation you need to fly, which can take a few days to sort.
Human sacrifice
Mandatory U2 concert
Death by exile.
Miss the boat - straight to jail.
Zombies I guess. You never know
Noro virus from the buffet?
Not having your passport when you leave the ship.  Until you can arrange for one with the embassy, you are not going anywhere or getting a hotel.
This is just one of the reasons I always get a balcony cabin at the back of the ship 😂
Definitely, booking an excursion through the ship guarantees they’ll wait!
When I was a kid my mom made it pretty clear to everyone this is the reason you book things through the cruise line. It may be a bit expensive compared to what locals offer but if you’re half an hour late the boat will still be there. If you booked locally and are late they will leave you.
Often those companies doing the excursions are owned by the cruise line, operated by locals. 
And have communication with the ship if the excursion is going to be late. 

Plane tickets are cheap compared to the additional fuel the ship uses if they have to increase speed by even a knot. 

Source:me. I worked on a cruise ship.
If you are on an excursion organized by the cruise line, they will wait for you as they are in communication with the tour company. If you are in a port on your own, they have no obligation to wait for you. They are granted permission to dock at set times and strictly follow the rules. I have seen people run and make it in the knick of time, out of breath, stressed and exhausted. Not fun.
 Ouch … boat was underway though, what can they do?
That was my experience but wouldn't it be even worse? It means they were several hours late.
Really? Interesting, I’ve never seen that before!
That extra time is to confirm their head count, get their supplies locked down, their engines buttoned up and running, and the thousand and one things that need to be done before departure without dealing with boarding passengers.
I think policies like this are actually counterproductive. People then know the ship is going to leave later than the stated time but they don't know how much later. The best thing to do is give people a hard fixed time and stick to it.
Oh I need to head to YouTube to find these!
And if op gave up and stayed behind with them that would have been an extra plane ticket, so even more money down the drain. They should be relieved that their kid has a good head on their shoulders but no, they'd Rather blame them 😒
They won't even wait for late *crew* unless it's someone they legally can't sail without.
This… it’s not asking the cashier to wait while Mom runs to get one more thing! They weren’t even trying to rush, they’re entitled and trying to lame blame.
OP: “my parents are haggling at the market, can you delay departure until THEY are ready to leave?”

Staff (probably):  🤣🤣🤣🤣🤣🤣🤣🤣🤣🤣🤣
Reminds me of one of my favourite episodes of Keeping Up Appearances where Hyacinth Bucket “pronounced Bouquet” runs out onto the dock screaming “stop the ship!” when she’s late for her cruise on the QE 2 😂 (after being told that it won’t go back for her 😜, she ends up getting a flight and meeting up with it in Copenhagen). It’s a great show, I highly recommend it!
OP's parents expect to be irrationally angry and for OP to accept the blame they dont deserve, duh
If you are not on a cruise scheduled tour, they will not wait for you no matter what. If on a tour booked through the cruise, then they will wait on you and are responsible for you to get back on the ship
Op should’ve just pretended they tried to get them to wait lol. Obvious NTA.
They definitely don’t wait. I have friends who missed a return time once while their other friend was still on the boat as they hadn’t done the excursion. The friend begged the staff to wait, AND  once staff started the departure procedures and had just left the dock they came running but it was too late. Even though the boat was just feet from the shore it was too late and they were out of luck. They will not wait or accommodate someone who is late.
It's also not like they don't know that passengers are unaccounted for. They check your ID when you disembark and when you get back on the boat. They cannot wait for stragglers. There's literal video compilations of idiots like OP's parents who miss the time and get left behind.
"STOP!  MY PARENTS ARE SHOPPING!"
The captain would have said OP's parents were shit out of luck, but would have used slightly more polite language.

As sailors have said since humans first learned to sail the seas: "The tides wait for no man."
They don’t delay departure. Even if you were a large group they will leave.
"I am the Captain now..."
Should have just lied and said they begged the staff to wait. They didn't care, so sad 😢
I'd have stopped the first crew member I saw..."Excuse me--I'm only asking you this so I can tell my parents I did. Would it be possible to wait until they feel like dragging their rear ends back to the ship? No? I completely understand. Thank you, sir."

Then when the parents start whining..."Hey, I asked and they said no." (Nothing says you have to tell them you asked a mechanic...or a nurse...or anybody who's not authorized to make that decision. You can just honestly say you asked.)
You  snooze, you lose unless you own it
Memories unlocked! This gave me a big chuckle because I have seen similar behavior with buses and trains.
Not quite the same, but I recently got to a bus stop right as the bus was coming, so waved at it to stop and started looking at my phone to get the ticket app ready to scan... but the driver must not have seen my wave because he zoomed past while I was trying to sort the app out! >_< At least I was on my way to work and my job is flexible enough they didn't notice I was 15 minutes later than I should have been...
The other day I saw a video where the cruise ship left with people literally running right up to it. I hate people that are so self absorbed they don't care who they inconvenience
That made me evil giggle and that felt good!
Having been raised by a similarly deluded couple - YES.

They literally think the world revolves around them, and are shocked, shocked I tells ya, when it ain't so. But they're so doing the classic Narc move of taking it out on their child regardless of who's actually to blame. It's fun for the whole family 😂
"Included tour" are the magic words. If THEY don't get you back, it's their issue. If you don't get YOURSELF back, it's your issue (caps just for emphasis, not yelling or arguing with anything you said!).
And this is why you should only go with the tour operator’s excursions if it’s a full day one. Even though it’s more expensive
Yeah, if the cruise arranges the excursion, they will wait for it to return, because they’re responsible for the trip. If you go off on your own, well, *you’re* responsible, and you know what a clock is, be on time.
Yep. Fortunately modern ships are less dependent on the tide than sailing ships were but they still aren't going to hang around past their scheduled departure time.
Once those doors are up, they’re up. We hadn’t left the dock yet, but the couple running to the ship couldn’t get on. 
Yeah, the news should start when i am having my coffee😂
AND because they notified the ship ahead of time. 

Sometimes they still can’t wait, but sometimes they can. What they can’t do is sit in port because some passengers will *maybe* deign to show up at some point, maybe. Or not. People leave cruises all the time and fly home directly, or stay on islands. You’re not supposed to, but it happens. They probably assumed that was the case here. 
Yeah, if I were a passenger on that ship standing out on deck waiting to watch the departure from land and I saw someone approaching in a wheelchair, I would be totally understanding. But if I waited 45 minutes for departure and saw two people running toward the ship waving their bargained-for serapes and sombreros and genuine made in China ancient ceremonial masks I'd be pretty annoyed.

I hate waiting for people though. It annoys me to no end when I attend a meeting at work and they delay it while we wait for someone, or bigger department meetings where they say "we'll get started in a few minutes, but let's give everyone a chance to get here" and we sit around for ten minutes waiting for people to straggle in. They "had a chance" to get there, they're just late! If I make an effort to get to the meeting on time and then I have my time wasted waiting for someone who was using that time to do something else, I have essentially been cheated of that time.

Nobody is going to begrudge someone who was at the hospital, but if OP's parents got to use those 45 minutes to shop while the rest of the ship waited for them, that would be entirely unfair.
A medical emergency is different though, if the ship hadn't gone back they could be liable and even get sued by the sick passenger.
And I imagine that previous port was the closest port? 
On a cruise in 22,a passenger got sick with covid, the crew was in contact with closest hospital that sent an ambulance to our next port. Can't remember if it was closer or just more convenient to use the next port.

Having someone so sick and not give them the appropriate medical attention or even sit with a dead passenger is bad PR. No one wants to use a cruise company when they know they don't care about serious medical emergencies. I would not feel safe incase something happens to me.
Illness is extremely dangerous on cruise ships, and they take it very seriously. Contagious illnesses could result in the entire ship being quarantined when they arrive at their destination port. So it's dealt with as quickly as possible, up to and including calling for an airlift of the ill passenger if possible.

Since it was nighttime, the captain could really put the engines through their paces without disturbing passengers on deck. While that likely cost the cruise line quite a bit of money in fuel, it's chump-change compared to what they would have had to pay every single passenger if the ship ended up quarantined.
Although, not worth having 4000 other passengers having to deal with bumpy seas and high winds on deck because the cruise has to now speed through and perhaps having to go through less than perfect weather instead of going around it
>but this is also a good case for a small lie along the lines of "I begged them to wait but they absolutely refused"

Here's the thing, people like this will never be satisfied because they aren't angry at what you did they are misdirecting their anger at themselves. It would have have just been "well you should have begged more!"
Exactly. And even then they might not wait if they think the cost of getting the guests to the next port is less than the delay would cost them.
Are you a travel agent?
Have you ever still missed the boat? If you did, would you consider paying air fair for your customer or would they be out of luck?
I’ve taken a non ship sponsored excursion in Holyhead, Wales a couple of times & they guarantee they will get you back in time. The second time they must have been running a little late & dropped us off literally at the gangway. I think we still had a half hour but that was the closest I ever cut it. Another time I was on the last tender boat in Grand Cayman.
Yes, that's probably a good idea (both things). They worry about careless tourists having their pockets picked, of course - or worse, being mugged.
I would never do that because of the risk of getting pickpocketed. If you keep it in the safe in your cabin, the crew will be able to access it in an emergency and then contact your embassy, and that’s enough for you to travel. It happens all the time. As long as it’s easily accessible for the crew (ie don’t hide it in your luggage), you’ll be fine.
Yep definitely narc traits. Shit I wish, I always wanted to run away from home but had nowhere to go. Give me a store, I'm eating whatever I want without anyone yelling. This is where I live now.
[Found it!](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bw4_iTtaiC8)

Turns out pier runners is an entire youtube genre.
I'll make time to look for it. I remember it in a cruise ship passenger running video compilation.
Damn that is so much worse 😂 glad she got home at least!
How do you NOT plan ahead? What the ef...

Like, I always check where the airport is located and how long it takes to get there. In most countries I visit, they have great public transportation and I would never take a taxi for 3 hours non-stop holy smokes...

But cruise ships don't always go to the moat convenient place... They go to ports.

One of my sailing expedition started 30 mins away from the airport at a specific port and I was able to split the cost with another person I met that was going to it too. It ended up costing reasonably. I never trust taxis.
I once got a cruise to Anchorage. The cruise line described the port as “Seward (Anchorage).” That was quite a surprise for me - did the trip in a U Haul van.
She must have been so scared
She needs to sort out her priorities.
r/unexpectedhogwarts
I appreciate this comment
[I'm not an OWL!](https://www.youtube.com/shorts/TE4-CjU1now)
r/unexpectedhermionegranger
Dogs and cats living together
“Your fiancé was a third-rate sailor, but a first rate main course.” 
It doesn't necessarily mean they'll wait - but it does mean they'll handle it.

That might mean putting you up in a hotel for the night and flying you out at the crack of dawn or driving like mad to the next port, but if it's their excursion, it's their problem to resolve.  If you're on your own - you're on your own.
exactly.  not like you put the thing in reverse and roll back in real quick.
Lasso the passengers and drag them after the ship?
Yup! I've taken a few non ship excursions but always give myself plenty of time to get back to the ship. I made sure that I would be back on the ship at least 2 hous before the posted departure knowing that it would give me 3 to 4 hours in reality. There is no excuse for missing the departure except lack of planning or a major emergency.
I know that Royal Carribean does this (or used to do it. I  haven't been on a cruise post pandemic so they may have changed their practice)
I expect they are just very embarrassed that an 18 year old was smarter than them and are taking it out on them
Oh they would've still blamed her for them missing the boat.  Entitled/narcissistic people are just like that.  Nothing is ever their fault.  I mean the sheer audacity to think that they could make a whole cruise ship wait almost an hour for them to finish shopping and get back to the ship is mind-boggling.  Like how important do you think you are?
Exactly! OP saved them even more hassle and cost. They should appreciate the responsibility and foresight instead of blaming them
I was flying across country with my two teen boys and realized right before departure that i left my phone in the bathroom. On the other side of the airport. It would be quite a hike there and back. I told my kids in no uncertain terms that if the plane started boarding to get on without me! No way was I paying for 3 missed flights. I made it back. Barely.
Here is the best answer and what OP should tell his parents.
That was my first thought as well. They are directing their anger at him, because they really are mad (and embarrassed) at themselves. What he needs to say , "of course I asked if they could wait for my parents and was rightly told "No". And how would my staying behind have helped? It just would have cost you more money to fly me to the next destination. I'm sorry this happened, but I did try to warn you." 
And then go about his business and enjoy his official passage to adulthood-guilt free!
I learned there’s only one person who MUST be on board. No, it’s not the Captain. It’s the physician! 
The irony of having to pay for expensive plane tickets because you were too busy trying to get a good price on what was probably cheap tourist crap.
[Footage of staff’s response to requests to delay the boat](https://youtu.be/9Im8l8_3qTQ?si=VGWkAbLkryd9k5nY)
Staff (in all likelihood): No, but thank you for letting us know as we need accurate passenger numbers in case of emergency.
I LOVE Keeping Up Appearances! "Bouquet Residence! Lady of the house speaking!"
Bucket residence, lady of the house speaking! No, this is *not* the Chinese takeaway!!!

And Onslow -- he was a favorite of mine
I always felt so bad for Hyacinth’s husband. Lol
My husband and I say ‘mind the cows’.  It is a calm way of saying you are driving too fast without being a Hyacinth
That has the best line at the end when Onslow complains about having to "eat with the crew" at the Captain's table 🤣
In the town where I live, there is the last name Bouquet but it's pronounced 'Bucket'. 🤣
Omg THANK YOU! I used to catch this show on sometimes and loved it, but every time I’ve thought about it since I couldn’t remember the name!
Absolutely great show and an awesome episode in particular. I love that Onslow the overall uncouth but gentle giant turns out to be such a suave and superb dancer!
it's a great show!
[Bucket woman](https://www.reddit.com/r/BestofRedditorUpdates/comments/wevvi0/bucket_lady_a_neighborhood_petty_revenge_story/) is one of my favorite stories on here and she's named after this lady


Edit: it's a saga so if you think those first ones are interesting you gotta read the update about her being attacked by a "vicious dog" 😂
My husband always said she was identical to my mom.
OP should send those videos to their parents whenever they make further comments.
Watch this be an episode of Undercover Boss, where the new employee throws off the Dumb & Dumber wig to reveal "I'M NOT JUST A BUS STOP JANITOR YOU LEFT BEHIND. I'M BOBBY GREYHOUND VIII OF GREYHOUND BUS LINES. I CARRY THIS 'OHANA MEANS GREYHOUND FAMILY' KEYCHAIN FOR A REASON, BUDDY."
To be fair, years ago, there was one woman who was always racing to the train at the very last second. The conductor would see her running up the hill to the platform and would hold the door (and the train) until she hopped on board.
To be fair at that point the ship has effectively already departed

Once the lines are cast off it's not trivial to tie back to the dock and could be dangerous if the crew and dockworkers aren't expecting it
Right! Just like a plane may delay departure for a bit if one of their own planes is running late and they have passengers on that plane who need to get on this one. But if there were passengers who were sitting at the airport Applebee's finishing up their appletinis, they're going to take off without them.
Yeah exactly. Despite it being an included tour, *I* was still scared we were going to be late and the ship would leave without us. We all ran down the dock to board it with mere minutes remaining. But if a ship is barely going to wait for its own included tour bus, why on earth would OP's parents think it would wait for them to finish shopping? Ridiculous.
When we went on a cruise, if we didn't schedule through the ship, we always made sure we were scheduled to be back with plenty of time. AND we only booked with operators who guaranteed you'd make it to the ship or they'd get you to the next port.
I went on a cruise recently, I was at the ports we visited, walking alone, on the screens it said what time you had to be back, 10 minutes before departure, I used Google maps and figured out how far the shops I wanted to see were and made a plan, in one port we were docked for 1.5 hours, managed to visit two tourists attractions and two stores and was  back so early I could put my stuff in the cabin, buy a drink and have the smoker deck all to myself for awhile.

It's all about planning ahead, and yes this was places I have never been to before. Totally a green tourist, I had a awesome time walking alone, watching the time and looking at the map to find my stores and tourists attractions

But yeah if someone is bad at planning ahead or is afraid of missing the ship or something, don't go alone in a unfamiliar city /place , the fact that one Has a tight schedule and that there are major consequences if you don't return on time , it may also make the sightseeing feel rushed and stressful. Thats not fun.
And this is why I know I would never enjoy a cruise. I get SO stressed when I know I absolutely have to be somewhere at a specific time. Even with the ship excursions I'd start getting tense probably a half hour before we even had to think about getting on the ship. Just reading what OPs parents did freaks me out.
Similarly, for a multi leg trip I'd book it all with the same company because if they screw up the transfer they'd take care of it but if transit service A messes up, transit service B won't care.
“Time and the Port Authority wait for no man.” — Sylvurphlame
And the “sometimes they can” times are going to be for valid reasons. Even if they could, I doubt that they would go to the trouble just because two passengers felt like shopping for longer. 
I know someone who was on a cruise recently. Someone in their party got injured in port (broke a bone after a fall). Initially the ship waited for them. It was partially because of late tours but also because they were in constant contact with the ship while at the hospital. They ended up getting off the ship at the next port due to the injury and flying home mid-cruise. It happens.
Come now, you know they weren't going to run for the ship!
You have several options with a medical emergency: go back, go forward, or call for a helicopter. I’ve been onboard for all options at different times. 

The decision has to be made by the captain and the onboard medical doctor - what’s necessary and what’s possible. 

No one wants a corpse for PR but also for humane reasons. The captains are people and generally feel responsible for the souls onboard. They don’t want you to die. 
Yeah but it’s my understanding they will cover the cost to get you to the next port.
No, a carnival clown
Yes, but mostly for personal benefit.
I've never missed a boat, the next port the boats typically go to from my town is drivable. I'd absolutely drive everyone
The risk of pickpocketing is a good thing to keep in mind, but tbh I would absolutely be taking my passport and specifically keeping it in my bra, because ain't nobody going to be able to get to that without me noticing (my shirts have pretty high collars so I really have to reach to get something in my bra, if you're wearing a top that's low enough that something in your bra could stick out, of course that might not be more secure.)
Do you leave your phone and cash aboard too in case you get pickpocketed? As long as you take precautions (not flashing it about everywhere, keep it close to your body) you are taking more of a risk by not having it with you.


Of course, it is somewhat dependent on the country you visit as well.
She’s not the sharpest tool in the shed.  She thought because the airport and the port served the same city that they were in the same place.  No, the airport was well outside the city to the north I think, and the port was to the south, and there was a very busy city between the two. As the crow flies, it was probably not that far apart, but a city that’s thousands of years old doesn’t have nice wide highways.
Right?! The problem started by cousin not looking and working with the schedule so to solve it she didn’t look at the schedule 🤦🏽‍♀️ ‘I fucked up once so now I’m gonna solve my own problem by fucking up again just because I’m lazy. Wait, this didn’t work?!’
I'm just gonna choose to believe that story happened in a third world country with no Internet or in 1983 because I cannot believe a person in our digitally connected age would be so willfully obtuse.
Mass hysteria!
Oh really? When I stopped in Rome, there were 4 coac buses that were late due to some traffic issues. A strike maybe? They waited 45 minutes for the buses. Maybe it was because there were so many?
“Jump!”
This created funny imagery in my head!
Water skiing behind the cruise ship!
On board time is normally an hour before departure time, clearly listed on the schedules.  Definitely no guarantee the gangway will still be down though.  Once in a while they have some pressing reason to hang out an extra hour, so some late passengers just get lucky.  Other times they might be in a hurry to get moving though.
Oh RC didn’t wait in April. Maybe 10 minutes max & I suspect that’s how long it takes to pull in the gangway and get ready to go.
Yep, projection is a major defense mechanism for people who never learned emotional regulation skills as children. “I messed up and can’t handle/process these feelings of anxiety, so it’s actually all YOUR fault.”
Yep.  I hate adults who can't adult.
[removed]
This. OP if nothing else you saved them the expense of a third airplane ticket to the next port. Maybe point that out to them.
Yep. "We suffered, so you should have suffered too."
Which is even more embarrassing
I read that going “oh maybe it’s one of those smaller river type cruises that have like under 60 people because they couldn’t actually think that a gigantic cruise ship full of thousands of passengers would omg 4000 people they actually did.”
Do you have a sister Violet, with a Mercedes, swimming pool and room for a pony? 😁
Husband. It's pronounced Bucket. You knew that when you married me.
I have a cousin who looks almost identical to Hyacinth and has much the same character.
"Sheridan!"
Absolutely! I love how no one except Hyacinth cares that he drives an old car and wears a vest
My husband's and my phrase for any kind of backseat driving from the other is "Minding the pedestrians, Hyacinth!"
Every time I watched it, I always thought, Poor Richard. It was such a hilarious show though.
The look on his face when she says “Of course I believe there's life after death. Richard and I will be an entity for eternity”
"RICHARD!!"
Poor, long-suffering Richard....
Richard picked the wrong dang wife.
Poor Richard. I always wondered how he ever got with Hyacinth in the first place.
especially when she made him steal the rolls royce with her
We use SO many quotes in my family, some of these are:

- the obvious one, when we find something terrible we say “if my Sheridan were here, he’d be appalled”

- if one of us says something silly/annoying “what a thing to say to somebody with a solid silver self-cleaning sauce separator”

- if we’re going out with family/friends “show me your smile”

- I often tell my husband to be “forceful and executive” at work

- I often recommend exercising because “joggers are above suspicion”

- I am Greek so if I’m talking about someone who is also Greek I’ll quote “he’s Greek you know, it’s terrifying how wealthy they are”

- we don’t just invite family to a bbq, we invite them to “an outdoors/indoors luxury barbecue with finger buffet” and “waterside supper with riparian entertainments” for picnics at the lake
You couldn’t help but feel a tiny bit of sympathy for Hyacinth- thunder/bragging rights stolen by Onslow and Daisy of all people 😂
😂😂
Is that still going on? I remember reading that and finding it hilarious 😆
And what do you say- was she? 😉
Which is really nice of them—unless it threw off the schedule of all the other trains. Sounds like it would be less than a minute delay, so probably wasn't an issue.

Regardless, the conductor is under no requirement to do that. They made a choice to be extra kind.
Had that happen to us flying to England. Our connecting flight waited just for us (mind it was only a few minutes).
You know you don't have to get off the ship. Sometimes it is more relaxing to stay on the ship and enjoy the amenities without the crowds.

Also if you book an excursion through the cruise line then they make sure to get you back in time and if there is an issue the ship will wait for you.

As a person with anxiety I love cruising because there is no pressure I feel refreshed after a cruise.
I did my "cruise" time on Naval ships, missing an underway was potentially career ending.  I get the idea of a civilian touristy kind of cruise and admit that perhaps being at sea and not having to work/stand watch would be potentially fun.  That said, I don't really see myself doing a cruise.  It would indeed be stressful, I all ready have some anxiety regarding not being on time to events/places etc. and know that 'time and tides await no man' so yeah, anxiety would be through the roof regarding underway times.
Same here and my family would be way too casual about this. Not as casual as OP’s parents, I mean they would definitely understand they had to be back on time, they just have a habit of underestimating how long things take and might be like “oh we have time to do xyz”.
Man, same. I'm a two hours early at the airport person lol. And I almost always take as early as possible flights.
as long as you book excursions through the cruiseline, they’ll wait for you!
If the shore excursion is one organized or arranged by the cruise ship, they will wait for those excursions if delayed so that's nothing to worry about.
I'm the same way and I know my partner is a total OP's parents - not in the entitled asshole "make the ship wait" for me way, just someone who doesn't spend her entire life being half an hour early for things out of anxiety.  (She is late most of the time, but it's because she's terrible judge of how long it takes to get places by vehicle and forgets to check traffic.  This scenario would probably be fine unless we're too far from the ship to walk back.)  I would be sweating and frantic the entire time while she (reasonably) would be so tired of my crap.
If departure times were so flexible, you'd have people staying out til 3am so they can go clubbing.
That sometimes they can is not even linked to severity of the case and professional communication. Cruise ships are big things that navigate through seas. They are on timetables tied to ports and passages that might only have certain time windows due to tides and depths. One literally cannot expect the movement of heavenly bodies to wait.
Ok, maybe they'd saunter. But it doesn't evoke the same imagery. I can see the serapes streaming and the sombreros flapping.
It should be added, that they won't speed up the ships for corpses, the corpses get left at the next most appropriate port.
If it's a excursion they facilitated
Carnival has clowns on board!? Shit, I've only cruised Norwegian.
I restrict the amount of cash I carry, and phones are easier to replace than a passport. I usually had a photocopy of my passport (or I would do it as a picture on my phone these days), but I intentionally only took what I was willing to lose.

Yes, there are things you can do to limit your appearance as a target, but even if you do everything right, it's still smart to not carry unnecessary valuables (heck, even your accent can give you away as an obvious tourist)
> Do you leave your phone and cash aboard too in case you get pickpocketed?

No, because I need to use my phone and cash while I’m out. I won’t need to use my passport except in case of an emergency, and in an emergency, it can be easily accessed on my behalf.

>you are taking more of a risk by not having it with you.

You’re taking zero risk by not having it with you because they have protocols specifically for this. There’s a nonzero risk to bringing it with you.
Wait, "the airport" in NYC isn't at Times Square? The "Paris airport" isn't on the Champs de Elyse? The "airport in Rome" isn't next door to the Colosseum? Etc.... Gee, who knew? (Not your cousin.)
Oh yeah, that kind of places, I see. Yeah, you could probably still estimate it with google maps, so there is no reason to not have known anyways...
Guessing here — Rome? Civitavecchia is a good bit outside the city, and Ciampino airport is on the other side of the city center?

ATH to Piraeus is closer, but that’s probably the second most likely.

Ships in Marseille and Barcelona call pretty much downtown. Istanbul and Alexandria don’t quite fit. Venice has a very different geography. Tunis airport is near the port.
At least she's consistent 😂
Cruisers call them “dock runners…”
I fully agree the parents are being ridiculous. I get missing the ship, these things happen. But to then be so petty  as to keep guilting their daughter over it; essentially ruining her graduation gift, is a level of immaturity I can't get past.

At the same time, I WOULD think the parents were AHs if their daughter missed the ship and they left without her.

Not sure if that's hypocritical, or if it's actually worse for parents to leave without their (technically adult) child.
These people are blaming her for not holding the cruise ship and 4000 other passengers so they could board nearly an hour late. You can't reason with people possessed of that level of entitlement, not to mention  emotionally immature.
Ok I’ll PM you my contact info because I’m going to need an invite to the next family reunion.
In one episode, someone asks Richard how he can stand being married to Hyacinth. He replies, "Well, it's a lot like being in the Army. You wake up in the morning, your marching orders are given, and the meals arrive on time!" He goes on to say that Hyacinth is really a very kind person deep down. I thought that was a good explanation.
When we walk by a pond, river, creek, we refer to it as a riparian area 😄
OMG. I’d love hanging out with you and your husband. 😂
Yep. Minus the English accent.
Totally. It was an early morning express train with only one stop after ours. Easily made up the time. Also, same conductor punched a different letter into my 3-year old's ticket every morning to test her on the alphabet. Truly wonderful man.
Yeah, people who I know who love cruising have told me that abou tthe excursions. Never thought about the enjoying the amenities without the crowds; that's a good point.
This. I enjoy excursions, but I only do the ones offered by the ship. And yes, it is more expensive. The only place I will do non-cruise excursions is on Roatan because I know guides and drivers there that are WAY cheaper.

But MANY people choose to stay on the ship. Especially regular cruisers who have been to the same islands and don't feel they'd be missing anything.  Also, it leaves stuff to do on the boat!
That would drive me absolutely mad!
Yes. That’s what this offshoot is talking about.
The tool was not sharp. 🤣
I actually love getting back early and grabbing a drink so we can watch the runners
Yup lots of videos on YouTube of them, some make it some don’t
I actually do think it would be worse if the parents left without their teenager. Perhaps it’s a double standard but I stand by it.
They’re narcissists. Nothing is ever their fault. They’re numb to the reality that exists outside their own selfish desires in a way I find surprising even for narcissists. If they left their daughter because she didn’t understand basic cruise etiquette or got lost I’d say they were the A. If they left after telling her to put the shopping bag down and get her ass on the ship, or because she was busy having a tantrum that she wasn’t getting everything her way I’d say that counts as a wake up call.
Yeah I would NEVER go anywhere on a trip with them again.
I totally agree! The parents are being absurd about it. The OP isn’t an ahole for leaving them. However, the parents would be an ahole for leaving their child in THIS circumstance since the child is a brand new adult. It’s different if the OP were older (say 25) or something or has a disability that could make them not fully capable of being responsible for themselves.
Not hypocritical at all. Leaving 2 adults, with enough life experience that they managed to raise at least one child to adulthood, who had the financial means to get to the next port, together in a strange foreign country is worlds apart from leaving a barely legal adult, who is still a teenager, with no money and little life experience. There's a huge safety difference between a middle-aged couple together and a teenager out alone.
Better yet, I will give you her address and you can spend a week with her. If you get sick, she will still insist on dragging you across the continent while insisting that diarrhea and a few cramps are nothing. You just have to see.....
Yeah, she might be pretentious & kind of… wannabe classist (in an upwardly mobile kind of way), but she does care about people.

She’s actually quite kind in most of the series, the comedy is from her delusions of grandeur & wannabe-upper class facade when she from a working/lower-middle class background
Onslow is the one who asked him.
Poor you- and your neighbours 🥴
I went on a cruise after my dad's death and dealing with the estate and fighting siblings I was mentally and emotionally exhausted. It was a seven day cruise. I only did two excursions. One was a historical walk starting at Blackbeard's compound through the historical homes of St Thomas. The other was a swim with dolphins.

Mostly I stayed on board and chilled. I found cozy spaces to just read. I watched the movie Kingdom of Heaven in the theater, got a massage and a facial. I wrote some fun fanfic.

It really is up to you how active you want to be.
Yup. I have a coworker who is worse though, and now she is my damn boss. So a few years ago we had to go on a business trip together. We were flying out of our small town airport into Chicago for a connecting flight for our final flight. She wanted us to book a connecting flight with a layover of only 40 minutes!! I was like NOPE. My layovers needs to be at least two hours, more is better. I told her if she wanted that flight, fine, but I was taking a different one. She finally agreed and I was right, because the first plane was delayed by 20 minutes and we would have had only 20 minutes to get to our next flight! At the Chicago airport sometimes it takes that look to walk to your departing gate! Of course, she would never admit she was wrong. One of those. 🙄 she hates waiting so when it comes to flights she prefers to “Risk it”. I am the exact opposite.
I may add this to my cruise repertoire.
Omg I thought my husband and I were the only ones who did that! We always book  a cabin with a balcony largely to be able to watch these folks run like their hair is on fire back to the ship. Drinks are mandatory, as is yelling (mostly) encouraging words. We have seen people left on the dock and their looks  of “I can’t believe they would really leave without us” is priceless.
There is a wealth of YouTube videos of the runners, too!  Can make for quite an entertaining time even when I'm not on a cruise!
Not really a double standard because the situation would be slightly different as
- The parents actually have authority over their child and can actually initiate a forced departure 
- The parents actually have the financial means to take a plane to get out of the mess they got themselves into. 

So yes it would indeed be much worse the other way round
Not a double standard at all. 

Parents are experienced adults, even if the child in question is 18 and *legally* an adult, good parents know that they are still young and may not know how or have the financial resources to handle it on their own. In most families 18 is just starting to learn how to be independent, and they likely don’t have years of salary savings, credit cards, or confidence and street smarts to keep themselves safe. Many 18 year olds do, this isn’t to bag on 18 year olds, but they are still teenagers vs a 40+ year old adult.
There are some differences to the situation - because though 18 is an adult, there is still a significant parent/child power dynamic at play. It would be far easier for the parents to "tell" the 18 year old they have to go now, than for the 18 year old to "tell" the parents they have to leave. Also, two people who have been adults a long time left together is a much safer and more comfortable situation than one person left all by themselves who has only been an adult a short time. 

Still, if the parents begged the 18 year old to head back to the boat and they flat out refused and said "I'm an adult and I won't go back and you can't make me go back", and the parents then went back to the boat, it would still be the 18 year old in the wrong.
Agree. Don’t leave your kid.
Stand by it and you’ll be standing by the dock waving goodbye to your parents whose authority you’re ignoring because you’re a grown up and can do what you want.
Onslow was the GOAT. Love that show, it’s a wonderful comfort watch.
That actually sounds like a nice holiday.
You are very wise. Longer layovers mean less of a chance your luggage gets left behind, too. Nobody really LIKES waiting, but if it comes to chilling out at the gate for an extra hour, or having a near heart attack thinking I might not get there on time, I know what I'll choose.

One time we'd hired a car (before Uber was a thing) to take us to the airport for an international flight, and the driver misunderstood and went to the airport first instead of our house. I'd booked like 4 hours before our flight, and the time waiting for him to show up was AWFUL. We did make it on time; fortunately security didn't take long. 

We have these TSA fast pass things now. 100% recommend
I once had plans to travel to a conference in Copenhagen that 2 people from work (one coworker at my level, and one guy at my managers level) ended up copying, and both of them A) Decided that they could just follow me around everywhere since I'd know what I was doing, and B) Weren't paying any F-ing attention to where I was actually going! (So I kept turning around to find that they were wandering off to the train station when we needed the coach station). The worst part was that on the flight back they insisted we had time to sit and eat for an hour when we really didn't (they'd announced which gate we needed, and we weren't at the gate, so we still had 20+ minutes of walking to do), so we ended up having to rush to the gate, and they were STILL being slow as heck about it!

The most annoying part was that both of them are parents to small children, whereas I'm the childfree "goes on holiday with her parents so she doesn't have to organize anything" type, so I had no idea where they'd got this "she's reliable, we can just follow her!" attitude from.
Is she trying to give herself a heart attack on company time? 

I've done layovers that short when that is the only option but I hate it. It's so stressful if there's any level of delay. AND that's when I use the same airline for both flights from a company that are good at making sure you make a connection with delays and the airport having a solid quick line for passport control.
Only a 40 minute layover at O'Hare?  That's crazy talk!
I’ve never even been on a cruise or seriously considered one and I want to do this.
Sometimes we place bets on who will make it or not lol
Shouts of “swim for it! I’ll tell the captain to stop but you have to swim!” also encouraged.
Apparently this is an activity that experienced cruisers enjoy and plan for, alcohol included, lol. 👇
Oh, I do it all the time!!! We actually left a man behind the other day because he was waiting on his wife and her friend to come back to the ship. We were still an hour late leaving, and they had not returned, so he stayed on the pier. My balcony is right behind the navigational bridge, and the Captain was on the outer bridge wing on his radio, telling the crew down below that they had waited long enough and that they couldn't wait any longer.
Exactly. Parents have an obligation to protect their offspring. Not the other alway around. As a parent i would much rather i get stranded in a foreign place, than my child.
Agree with point two
Always reading advanced physics texts. What a great character.
I KNOW! Freaking insanity!
AITA for telling my mom it wasn't cute or funny to dress me as a hot dog instead of a princess? 
So there's this new Target commercial going around where a little girl dresses as a hot dog, and it came on while my family was watching a scary movie. I (20F) am home from college for the weekend and brought my boyfriend, and my mother (57F) decided it would be hilarious to mention that she'd made me a hot dog costume as a kid, except the way she told the story, it was my request. She said that all the girls wanted to be Disney princesses, but I had asked to be a hot dog, and so she'd gone out of her way to make me that costume. 

This is not what happened, and I said as much. What actually happened is that I wanted to be Snow White, and had told everyone, including the teachers, that I was going to be Snow White. I was obsessed with that movie as a kid, to the point where I would actually get invested in doing chores because I was cleaning up just like Snow White. My dad and I would watch that movie all the time, and I was very excited to be Snow White for Halloween, especially because my ballet studio was doing a special "princess dance," for Halloween and we'd all signed up for special princess slots, and I'd shown up early with my dad the week before so I could get to be Snow White. 

My mother decided that she wanted to be quirky and that Snow White was a bad role model after I got in trouble for trying to cook dinner for my family. I was about eight, and I tried to make hot dogs, like how she made food for the dwarves in the movie, and I made a mess. My mom "surprised" me on the day of with this crappy hot dog suit, and told me if I didn't wear it she'd never let me watch Snow White again. She took a million pictures, the other girls teased me for months, and it was one of the most humiliating moments of my childhood. 

I told the real story, and mentioned that I got through the day by pretending that she was the evil queen making me dress in rags, but the rags happened to be a garbage meat costume. She got really quiet after that, and after we left, my brother says she was crying and looking at the pictures from that Halloween. I didn't want to make my mom cry, but it's a shitty memory for me and it felt like she was trying to humiliate me all over again in front of my boyfriend. 

TL;DR: I called my mom out for forcing me to be a hot dog for Halloween and humiliating me as a child after she brought up the story pretending I'd wanted to be. AITA?
Welcome to /r/AmITheAsshole. Please view our [voting guide here](https://www.reddit.com/r/AmItheAsshole/wiki/faq#wiki_what.2019s_with_these_acronyms.3F_what_do_they_mean.3F), and remember to use **only one** judgement in your comment.

OP has offered the following explanation for why they think they might be the asshole:

 > 1. I got mad and kind of yelled at my mom over something that happened twelve years ago. 2. This might make me the asshole because realistically, it was a long time ago, and it wasn't that big a deal, and now she's crying about it which makes me feel like a crappy daughter.

Help keep the sub engaging!

#Don’t downvote assholes!

Do upvote interesting posts!

 [Click Here For Our Rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/AmItheAsshole/about/rules) and [Click Here For Our FAQ](https://www.reddit.com/r/AmItheAsshole/wiki/faq)

##Subreddit Announcements

Follow the link above to learn more

---

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose/?to=/r/AmItheAsshole) if you have any questions or concerns.*

*Contest mode is 1.5 hours long on this post.*
My mum made me dress as a clown I am scared of clowns 

She also didn’t explain how the costume came off and I publicly peed myself
NTA. 

She clearly had a different perspective and you set her straight. Just because someone cries doesn't mean they're the victim in this. Especially if the truth is that not only did you not want to wear the hot dog, but she threatened your favorite movie as a result? Wear this or else? Like WTF. If this is true, it's pretty weird and messed up. I'd never force a costume on my child. That's such a weird ass thing to do.
NTA

It was her choice to bring up the anecdote and lie about it.
[deleted]
NTA
Wow, what a shit move by your mom and to an eight year old. I’m glad you told the truth and stood up for yourself. I hope she learns, jeez what a witch.
I’m sorry that happened.
Your mom sounds like a real Weiner
Wasn’t this a meme a few years ago? I have a distinct memory of a little girl dressed up in a hot dog costume while all the other girls were princesses. It said something to the effect of “In a world full of Disney Princesses, be a hot dog” or something like that.
Parents can be casually cruel without realizing it, particularly when they think they're being cute or quirky. She probably didn't know how badly she was hurting you at the time, but she absolutely *did* know that she was overriding your desires using parental *force majeure*.

Jokes between adults shouldn't be made at your kids' expense, but often they are. This is a prime example. Your mom was looking for approval from other moms and made you the butt.

NTA, OP, but keep this lesson in mind with your own kids.
NTA, I think some parents don’t understand how traumatizing/demoralizing some childhood memories can be in the future.


In my case, in my country we don’t have Halloween but we did have the spring welcome day on kindergarten where we would wear a costume. All the other kids went with amazing costumes and all the other girls wore the most beautiful mermaid tails, princess dresses or sparkly wings for a fairy.


I wanted to be a fairy too, but do you know what my mother sent me as? A ‘fairy without wings’ lol, just a green dress and a straw hat, I was the worst dressed and kids made fun of me. Didn’t help that my mother was a DRESSMAKER and probably made some of the beautiful gowns that other girls wore. It still hurts as one of my earliest memories lol
This didn't happen. It's a 2016 twitter meme. There's even a buzzfeed article on it.

[https://www.buzzfeednews.com/article/aliciamelvillesmith/be-the-hot-dog-princess-you-want-to-see-in-the-world](https://www.buzzfeednews.com/article/aliciamelvillesmith/be-the-hot-dog-princess-you-want-to-see-in-the-world)
Blatantly fake. 

[https://cdn.apartmenttherapy.info/image/upload/f\_auto,q\_auto:eco,c\_fill,g\_center,w\_730,h\_487/k/archive/be5be93b61a829314a3efc35e628566a6f0ace87](https://cdn.apartmenttherapy.info/image/upload/f_auto,q_auto:eco,c_fill,g_center,w_730,h_487/k/archive/be5be93b61a829314a3efc35e628566a6f0ace87)
NTA. Sounds like some of the “changed” stories that pop up from my childhood. 

Things that my brother did are somehow now attributed to me, and things my mom absolutely did suddenly never happened. It’s frustrating, especially when those “stories” are shared with a spouse or significant other.
NTA.

My mom did things like this to me as a kid except if I bring up the humiliating memory she tells me it never happened and I’m confusing it with a different universe. That I made it all up. Then she gets so aggressively mad to the point she calls me abusive and tells me how she’s tired of me making up stories from the past… So I feel for you. Personally would have said and done the same thing you did.
NTA your mom blackmailed you into wearing the costume that she made,  with threats, to take away something that you loved,  unless you complied,  then tried to twist the story around, to make it look like you wanted it.

She was likely crying, because she was embarrassed,  to be called out, for her abusive behavior,  in front of your bf
NTA. My parents' insistence on gaslighting me with horrible childhood stories that they think are so cute and hilarious is just one of many reasons I've chosen to go no-contact. To them it was just another day ending in Y, but I was making core memories and remember my trauma better than anyone, thankyouverymuch.

My parents love to tell the story of how they would put my favorite stuffed animals in the microwave and threaten to "kill them" if I didn't clean my plate. The way they shrug and laugh and say "hey, it worked!" Yeah thanks dad, I'm 39 now and still have problems with disordered eating.
https://www.buzzfeednews.com/article/aliciamelvillesmith/be-the-hot-dog-princess-you-want-to-see-in-the-world
Absolutely NTA.  I had a narcissistic and verbally abusive mother that was an absolute mind fuck to be raised by.  Everything horrible and traumatic she said and did to us she either flat out denies ever happened, or she has some delusional spin on.  I refuse to play her game, and just “not make waves” and call her out on it every time.
NTA, your mom needed to hear that and your inner child needed you to say it. 

I'm sorry she did that to you, it's shit you'd expect from a bully. Hopefully the tears mean she at least understands her mistake.
wasn’t this a viral meme a few years ago?
NTA  it is a parents job to create a childhood worthy of good memories for the child, not reliving a childhood through your child. parents too often forget that.
The axe (often willfully) forgets. The tree remembers. NTA.
NTA.  If you do not want to be called out on a lie.  Do not lie.  If you do not want to be called out for being a bad parent.  Do not be a bad parent.
My two older brothers went to a costume party. They wanted to go as cowboys. My mum made them go as tweedledee and tweedledumb. They have never forgiven her for it and the are well into their 40s now
NTA. 

My dad kept a picture of him hugging me by the dinner table. 

It was from a thanksgiving where he got black out drunk and made a complete ass of himself in front of all the neighbors. 

You could see the disassociated look on my face while he's red and hugging me. 

Two very different memories of the same holiday. 
NTA.

Based on your comments, it sounds like your mum is/was the classic "not like other girls" persona and wanted you to be the same and punished you because you weren't. Her reasoning for the punishment is utter nonsense, and I wouldn't be surprised if she would have found some other excuse to make you wear that costume just to punish you for daring to want to be a princess.
In 2016 I remember #hotdogprincess went viral for a bit.


https://www.buzzfeednews.com/article/aliciamelvillesmith/be-the-hot-dog-princess-you-want-to-see-in-the-world
NTA that is such a sad story.
I hope you got your Snow White costume eventually if not your inner child deserves one.
INFO 

Just because I'm curious, where was your dad when your mom made you dress as a hotdog, and when she told the story incorrectly today?
NTA! As a Mom, I can’t imagine doing this to my child EVER…! You didn’t deserve that treatment then, and you don’t deserve that false story now… I’m so sorry you didn’t get the costume you truly wanted, and that your mom set out to embarrass you! My parents tried to embarrass me in front of my husband when we began dating (like he barely knew me at that point) by telling him how I believed there was a ghost in my room, etc. and my dad told me the prank he pulled on me… At the time I had such bad night terrors that I had trouble realizing if I was genuinely asleep or awake, so dreams were super real, and they were terrifying with sleep paralysis too.

One night it was super bad and I saw *her*… I came out of my room after I finally woke up and got out of sleep paralysis and cried to my dad (I was about 10 or 11) and begged him to check my room (it felt so real, I thought she was still somewhere around my bed…) He goes in and says “see honey, nothing to be afraid -“ then SCREAMS and yells “SHE’S GOT ME DEAR GOD HELP ME!” And bumps around in my room… I SCREAMED “I TOLD YOU I TOLD YOU!” And bawled as I ran backwards and fell on my butt. He came out laughing and said “Geez, I was just playing…” 

My husband seemed annoyed with this story and brushed it off and saw I was about to cry and said the dinner was lovely and asked me to go for a walk, and he told me that story wasn’t funny to him, and that he was sorry my dad was that way when I explained the night terrors. I did have a private conversation with my dad about it later and he apologized and said he didn’t realize my night terrors were that bad. He said he just assumed I was watching too many scary movies (I wasn’t)!
My mother bought me a boys school uniform for my first day at a new school. I was bullied for months about that. 
When I brought it up about 20 years later she glared at me and said "you really hate me don't you?"  ! She is a bit of a narcissist.
My mom also has very fond memories of some terrible costumes she put me in. A couple carry heavily traumatic memories. She still thinks they were cute and that I was over-reacting. I love her dearly, but I can’t even joke about one of them. And there aren’t any pictures that I know of anymore because I systematically went through every album and picture stash and destroyed them. 

NTA.
NTA, it’s good that she’s crying. It means she understood.
NTA. Your mom is a real piece of work.
NTA. My mother used to do the same shit, except for us, it was during carnival. Every girl in my class would dress like a princess, so "I should be different and stand out, be unique". To this day, 20+ years later, I call her out about this.
NTA.  She should know very well that she coerced you into wearing that stupid costume, because she threatened to not let you watch Snow White.

I hope she cries every time she sees the photos, until such time as she shreds them and apologizes to you.
I'd say let it go, but that would be so hypocritical of me.  So instead, make peace with your hot dog costume, but remember your mom for white washing the memory.  My mom has a version of my childhood that did not happen.  AT all.  In my mom's version, it was all snowflakes, hugs, puppies, and unicorns and that is not the reality I lived.  I've since let it go as to that's what she needs to remember and that's ok.  It's not reality, but it's ok that she wants to remember it that way.  It doesn't change what really happened and if she needs to remember it that way, that's fine.  I don't let it impact me.  

That said, I do get the absolute outrage for "that's fucking not what happened".  I just shrug and let it go because I decided I don't care.
^^^^AUTOMOD  ***Thanks for posting! This comment is a copy of your post so readers can see the original text if your post is edited or removed. This comment is NOT accusing you of copying anything. Read [this](https://www.reddit.com/r/AmItheAsshole/wiki/faq#wiki_post_deletion) before [contacting the mod team](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FAmItheAsshole)***

So there's this new Target commercial going around where a little girl dresses as a hot dog, and it came on while my family was watching a scary movie. I (20F) am home from college for the weekend and brought my boyfriend, and my mother (57F) decided it would be hilarious to mention that she'd made me a hot dog costume as a kid, except the way she told the story, it was my request. She said that all the girls wanted to be Disney princesses, but I had asked to be a hot dog, and so she'd gone out of her way to make me that costume. 

This is not what happened, and I said as much. What actually happened is that I wanted to be Snow White, and had told everyone, including the teachers, that I was going to be Snow White. I was obsessed with that movie as a kid, to the point where I would actually get invested in doing chores because I was cleaning up just like Snow White. My dad and I would watch that movie all the time, and I was very excited to be Snow White for Halloween, especially because my ballet studio was doing a special "princess dance," for Halloween and we'd all signed up for special princess slots, and I'd shown up early with my dad the week before so I could get to be Snow White. 

My mother decided that she wanted to be quirky and that Snow White was a bad role model after I got in trouble for trying to cook dinner for my family. I was about eight, and I tried to make hot dogs, like how she made food for the dwarves in the movie, and I made a mess. My mom "surprised" me on the day of with this crappy hot dog suit, and told me if I didn't wear it she'd never let me watch Snow White again. She took a million pictures, the other girls teased me for months, and it was one of the most humiliating moments of my childhood. 

I told the real story, and mentioned that I got through the day by pretending that she was the evil queen making me dress in rags, but the rags happened to be a garbage meat costume. She got really quiet after that, and after we left, my brother says she was crying and looking at the pictures from that Halloween. I didn't want to make my mom cry, but it's a shitty memory for me and it felt like she was trying to humiliate me all over again in front of my boyfriend. 

TL;DR: I called my mom out for forcing me to be a hot dog for Halloween and humiliating me as a child after she brought up the story pretending I'd wanted to be. AITA?

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/AmItheAsshole) if you have any questions or concerns.*
My dad does this crap with creative remembering.  Every story has somehow been changed enough where he is the good guy in all of them, and none of the stories matter at all.  That is annoying enough, but what your mom is doing is a whole other animal. She actively humiliated you as a child and now thinks it's a cute story to tell. 


 I don't care what anyone says, things like that stick with you.  I still think about the time a snot bubble came out of my nose in 4th grade when I was talking to the girl I liked, I can't imagine what it's like to have a whole assed holiday attached to the memory. 


You are not in the wrong, and I know that no one wants to make their mom cry, but she might have needed this wake up call.  
It’s giving [A Little Girl Dressed Up As A Hot Dog During Princess Week](https://www.buzzfeednews.com/article/aliciamelvillesmith/be-the-hot-dog-princess-you-want-to-see-in-the-world)

Can yall not believe fake stories? This is literally a story fabricated from every single detail from this article. It was all over Instagram, Reddit, and fb for months. Come on now lol


Why do you think this account is a throwaway? WHO in their right mind is coming to Reddit about this and typing all these specific ass details out that match the news story specifically?
[removed]
Apparently when I was like 4 years old I dressed as Ross Perot for Halloween and my mom tells the story as if it was my idea.

I’m 35 now and still dont even know who Ross Perot is, except that I was him for Halloween I guess.
Ooof I really want to sew a snow white cosplay for you right now. NTA
NTA.  I bet if you tried to tell her when you were younger, your mother would not have listened. Well, she heard you now.
"Garbage Meat Costume" 😆
NTA. idk how she could think this was a fun quirky thing on your end. I am also biased against mothers, so take this with a grain of salt, buuuuut she just realized what she sowed. I get feeling bad for her actually crying about it but like...I think she brought this on herself.
NTA.   She  threatened to take away your  favourite movie if you didn't wear the costume . She knew she was hurting you and going against your wish to be Snow White but you were just a player in her  preferred persona as the quirky mum of a quirky daughter.


Now,  she either enjoys upsetting you by bringing up this incident or she genuinely believes her fictionalized account.



I would keep her at arm's distance and not reveal details of my personal life. Reconsider bringing boyfriends home. You don't know what she may say to them if she is comfortable fictionalising the hotdog story.
NTA. Using humiliation as a punishment is cruel. If a child makes a mess trying to cook, all they have to do is clean it up. It's justified to call her out. I also kind of understand how your mum feels now. It's hard for a parent to realise that they made a mistake. 
NTA but I wondering if your mom is actually my mom. Because this is quite literally the type of thing my mom did. Even the story revision lmao.
What an a$$hole mom.  Hope your mom finds this post and cries again.
NTA. Her revisionist history sucks. Also trying to cook for the family at 8 was very ambitious. She should have applauded you, then had you help clean up the kitchen. Instead try to foster and interest in cooking. Maybe you could have turned out to be a chef.
NTA 

I swear it's a mum thing to act the victim when called out for doing something that traumatized their kids. I always got the "well, if I'm so bad I don't know why you even talk to me" guilt trip, ( jokes on her because this year marks twelve years of me not talking to her.)

Your feelings are valid, it's not your fault that the truth hurts
'it's a shitty memory for me and it felt like she was trying to humiliate me all over again in front of my boyfriend.'


It wasn't *like* that, it was *exactly* that. Your mother did it for her own amusement, your feelings be damned. NTA.
Tell mother that in order to make it up to you, you are going to dress her in a crappy hotdog suit and make her parade around in front of her friends, and if she doesn’t, you’ll never allow her to see you again.
Ok I normally am not a fan of "This story is fake" comments but this whole story is based off a viral tweet and picture from 2016

https://x.com/graysonl3/status/729806002007183360?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw%7Ctwcamp%5Etweetembed%7Ctwterm%5E729806002007183360%7Ctwgr%5E28446cf6d5ab1e6e6a66f7e6c8a3df1cfd71b0f2%7Ctwcon%5Es1_c10&ref_url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.buzzfeednews.com%2Farticle%2Faliciamelvillesmith%2Fbe-the-hot-dog-princess-you-want-to-see-in-the-world


so unless either:
- OP is the girl from the viral post
or
- OPs mom got the idea to do this from the viral post


I'm calling fake


P.S. Pretty sure the kid from the OG viral post was dressing up as Hot Dog Princess from Adventure Time. And the adults at the time just didn't get it and thought she was a random hot dog.
One of my worst childhood memories is going to book week (in Aus we dress up as book characters or something we like to celebrate books) as a carrot. My mum claims it's what I wanted to be but all I remember is going to the event and all the other girls were dressed up as princesses or girly things. I was teased and it was brutal. I don't think I was more than six at the time it happened. I also remember wanting to be a fairy one year and she made a robot costume and once again I got teased. 
So thanks for the trauma costumes mum xox
Are you the girl from the Tumblr post or are you copying a Tumblr post from 10 years ago?
Okay, yours is worse.
Ah yes. My 3rd foster mother was a single child psychologist and her plan to get me over my fear of clowns was immersion therapy and clown camp where kids spent a week dressing like a clown, painting faces and putting on awful shows. It was also sleep away camp in some kind of museum, we slept in sleeping bags on the floor. Clowns are not something I happen upon all the time, I don’t quite think immersion therapy was needed. It was awful, I didn’t sleep the entire time and I hate them more than ever, but I learned how to walk on stilts! :/
I’m so sorry! As a Mom I just don’t get this… ☹️
My mom has told me this story- when I was like 3 my parents put me in the same clown costume my dad had worn 40 years earlier. Apparently I was super upset and I guess it was delicate from age, cause I ripped it to shreds to get it off when they wouldn’t take it off me.
First time we experienced world book day started with our daughter's class having to write about their favourite character and my daughter knew exactly who she wanted to write about and did a great job. The next week they were told they had to dress as the character they'd written about so there were a dozen tiny Hermiones and Obélix. She can laugh about it now 

Younger daughter's pal had a Potter party and she didn't want to go as Hermione and wanted to go as Ron, partly to be funny and partly to go against the grain. She was miserable but again can laugh now
Ugh same :( I hated clowns and I remember tears rolling down my cheeks as I was being dressed :(
Mine dressed me *as a* ***diaper*** when I was six...  
And as a garbage truck when I was ten.
She HATED Snow White. And Cinderella and Aurora. She was kind of okay with Belle, and really pushed Mulan and Merida on me, but those weren't the ones I was interested in. She generally hated everything I liked, and was really into the whole "Cinderella ate my daughter" thing. She wanted us to be allies against the other moms of the town we lived in, and I just wanted her to be like the other moms honestly because they were nicer.
From the way OP wrote it, it doesn't sound like she was intentionally lying. It's sounds like she created false memory in her head and she's just now being confronted that it's false and the truth is that she hurt her daughter. 
It was honestly one of the worst memories of my childhood, which I am well aware means I had a pretty good childhood overall. It just still makes me feel like I'm this gross waddling thing that can never be pretty or delicate or worthy when I think about it. Like I'm just gross and forced to watch everyone else be special and lovely.
Mom didn’t know??  BS.  She threatened her 8 year old child with taking away her favorite movie FOREVER just to force her to dress up in mom’s attempt at a show off costume.  That’s not an “I thought I was doing a good thing but didn’t realize that it turned out bad”, that’s “I’m a self-centered asshole who doesn’t care how I affect other people”
I know from experience that the issue in this situation goes far beyond the fact that the parent failed to remember this pivotal moment in their child's life. It's also that the mother seemed to be unable/unwilling to take accountability for their shortcomings there.

I bring this viewpoint as someone who had a stalker in 9th grade, but I happened to be friends with the guy in 5th grade. My parents never took my accusations seriously even though they literally witnessed him admitting to driving up and down our block all one Sunday afternoon waiting for us (me) to get home from church. He has a younger sis of the same age as my younger sister. So, at their graduation ceremony, my mom noticed the guy and brought him over to Mr.

TL;DR, I lit into my mom after the ceremony and she just responded saying that she didn't remember. That just means that they don't care about how you feel.
I have to wonder how much time has shifted Mom's memory that she forgot threatening to take Snow White away forever unless the hot dog outfit was worn.

My own mother has "forgotten" key details like that over the years and always seems stunned that I remember them so clearly.
I hadn't thought about it in ages until I saw that commercial honestly.
It was a pretty shit move by her mom to a 20 year old as well, drudging that up like it wasn't her fault, in front of her boyfriend.
And NTA at all
[removed]
You are correct, calling the mother on her shit move, forces her to reflect.   Reflection is difficult when you are faced with the truth rather than a curated self-validating memory.    Good for OP, too bad for mom!!!!
Oh boy, it's so "sad" that your mom is actually realizing what an awful thing she did, OP. Seriously though, your mom did something awful, and she should feel awful about it.
seriously!! i get dressing a baby / 1 year old up as a hot dog bc they dont know whats going on but.. an 8 year old is CRAZY
You deserve an Oscar for that.
Don't get hot and flustered, use a bit of mustard
Literally remember reading the buzzfeed article about this in 2016. Ainsley was 5 then, and would not be 21 now. Unless multiple mums dressed their kids at hotdogs during princess week
Yup. And what a coincidence, it was recently posted on Reddit. [https://www.reddit.com/r/hotdogs/comments/1g2or1g/the\_choice\_is\_yours\_xpost\_ruselessredcircle/](https://www.reddit.com/r/hotdogs/comments/1g2or1g/the_choice_is_yours_xpost_ruselessredcircle/)

  
OP, is this you?
I was looking for this comment to make sure I wasn't the only one who used to lurk on tumblr.
Yup I def remember this going around a few years ago
Yeah, this is clearly just based on that meme. Good little fiction though.
[Oh yeah, I found it](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DnuI1GQ0IeQ)
Writing exercises are fun and all but this just makes OP look sort of sad and pathetic.
Why did I have to scroll so far to see this?! It’s obvious fiction.
Thank you!  This is made up bullshit.  Other people have mentioned it, and it just gets ignored.
Batman!
I can't believe how far I had to scroll for this, after all the actual commenter's who fell for OPs BS.
Yeah I very much remember this story from years ago. I looked it up, it was 2016, and it went media viral. That little girl would be 13 now so either it’s quite a coincidence or things don’t add up.
I was looking for this comment, because while there’s a chance the post is real, it feels like the hot dog princess meme is simply being reanimated 🌭👑👸🏻
Exactly. It’s fake af. Report it for shitposting 😂😂
This is sadly true. There are whole subreddits dedicated to sharing videos people have posted online of their kids being upset/angry/scared/doing something stupid for others to laugh at. I'm sure most of those parents initially upload them because they think they're "cute," but I always feel awful for those kids and wonder how embarrassed they're going to be in the future when they (or their friends) find the videos.
I'm not saying this to be an ass, just posting because I would rather hear a correction from a stranger online than in person or at work or whatever.

"Force majeure," when it's not a specific legal term, means more of an unforeseeable event like a massive infrastructure breakdown (eg, bridge collapsing) or a natural/catastrophic event (eg, avalanche, tornado). In English it's closer to "force of nature" or "act of god" than the translation "greater force." 

You maaayybbeee could have been going for "patria potestas" but I don't know if it's a common phrase. But it gets more to the meaning of what you are going for even if it's gendered.

Otherwise totally agree just trying to help sorry for being *that person*!!
That is absolutely horrifying. My stomach just dropped honestly. I wish I could have made wings for little you :(
you notice theres no snow white in that picture
Another universe...?
Yes, other commenter's have poster the easily googled story. OP is full of shit
Honestly yeah, I think that was it. She probably convinced herself once I was in the costume I'd love it and feel special and unique, but it never did go that way.
I never did get to be Snow White, but I've had pretty awesome costumes since then. I'm going as Barbie this year!
In my mom's version, I hated the other girls in town as much as she hated the other women and \*wanted\* to be a weird kid because she wanted to be a weird mom who doesn't like housework or makeup or dresses. I learned makeup from a friend's mom, I learned basic house skills from youtube, and I never had clothes I actually liked unless I asked non-her relatives for them for christmas or my birthday. It sucked.
Good for you.   I try to let stuff go but sometimes when she brings things up in a way that whitewashes the truth I will occasionally correct her, in which case she denies it and acts wounded, which bothers me nor one bit.  I'm immune to Tears As a Weapon.
I would love to do that, but my mother is still a part of my life, so in order to fully respect her as a reasonable person again, I need her to give an apology that addresses what really happened. Until then, it's thin ice, with a bullshit tolerance level of 0.

To me, it will never be ok when a parent (mine or anyone else's) deludes themselves into believing they weren't horrifically abusive. Even among the most flawed people, redemption should be a possibility, so long as they humble themselves to the truth, repent, and live a changed life.
This is basically identical to the exact sort of thing that happened to me during my childhood and then again in my adulthood when I would set my mother straight on her fake memories of my supposedly happy childhood. I believe it 100%. 

My mother went out of her way to make me unhappy. She’d do the complete opposite of what I wanted. One example is how she would refuse to buy me the toys I actually asked for and instead get me something that was the complete antithesis of what I actually liked, “You want Micro Machines? Ok, here’s a Barbie!” “You want a TMNT action figure? Ok, here’s a make-your-own jewelry set!” And no it wasn’t a money thing because the thing I wanted was often cheaper than the thing she bought. And then she would get mad that I didn’t play with the toys she bought, even though I made it clear I was an action figure kid not a Barbie kid. She also never let me be what I wanted for Halloween, ever. But she would spend HOURS sewing these elaborate costumes for stuff I absolutely did not want to be. But again, what I wanted to be was 1/4 of the work of the costume she made for me.


And then later she would make up these weird “funny” stories she would tell people about how it was all my idea/I enjoyed it. And if I had the nerve to say, “No, you were being awful to a 6 year old for no reason, and I cried for days and kinda hate holidays now because of it” she would bawl her eyes out and martyr herself and tell everyone I was an awful child who just wanted to hurt her.

So yeah, I could have written the OP, I totally believe it.
You're sweet, but my boyfriend and I are going as Barbie and Ken this year!
She's built her whole personality on being quirky, that wouldn't work.
\*Wurst
No one knows less about kids, than experts on kids :)
She was under the impression that immersion therapy is like teaching a kid how to swim by throwing them into the deep end of the pool and not letting them out until they swim to the shallow end. 

Proper immersion therapy must be done with the patient's consent and voluntary involvement. Each step of exposure should be done incrementally, and advancement to the next level should be decided by the patient.

What she did to you should have prompted a disciplinary hearing.
Too many women become parents without realizing they're now mothers. They just can't grasp what it means to have a child, and what their kid is owed. Basic respect, for one...
Many parents see their children as property. Not individuals HUMAN BEINGS with their own wants and needs and human rights. They often see them as accessories. Happens a lot. People have kids without knowing what that really means.
Some mothers genuinely abhor their own daughters. Mine is like this too. She used to dress me in boy clothes when I was little and I would cry and cry because all I wanted to wear was pink and Barbie and glitter and then get beatings for crying too much.

Then in middle school she would show up to pick me up early wearing my clothes. It was always so bizarre, even then.

Some women see their daughters as competition. For what exactly? Idk 

Sounds like OP and I were raised by the same swamp witch of a woman archetype.
Right? You get two, maaaaybe three halloweens when they’re too little to really pick for themselves but after that it’s their choice.
I think the difference between your stories and the rest is that the child got to choose in your stories.
That's such an odd thing to put onto a child. I wonder if this is but one of many stories where she tried to mold you a certain way and completely disregarded your own feelings 🫠
That's weird, coming from a mom who is very much not a princess girl- I actually went to a Halloween party in 2nd grade where every girl besides me was a princess...I was a dinosaur. I was mortified, even though I LOVED my costume, but at least my friends were kind to me. Now I have 2 daughters- would it be more fun for me if they were into Mulan? Yeah, cause I love that movie, but I didn't have them to make smaller versions of myself- they're their own people. I pretend that I have never enjoyed a movie more in my life if it's something they love. I never liked dance class, they've both tried ballet and jazz. I'm a swimmer, one of them isn't interested in more than just safety skills. They're both amazing, unique kids. I'm sorry your mom didn't let you be who you wanted to be.

Children shouldn't be ammo against the other adults in your life. It sounds like you have a lot of stuff from childhood that's going to be more and more upsetting as you get older- just decide what you want your relationship to look like with your family and adjust accordingly. I had a good childhood, very supported and unconditionally loved, and I still have stuff that my therapist has had to help me work through. You've got some kinda ugly stuff to handle, and while I don't envy you the work, it sounds like at least maybe your mom will be willing to help and/or apologize.
What was her deal with the other moms? Did they reject her or did she just look down on them for some reason? It’s gross that she made her issues your issues too. NTA.
I’m quite a lot older than you, but my mum was like this about My Little Pony - always complaining about how vacuous it was, going on to other parents about how “kids will play with anything if it has pink nylon hair!” I hated it so much. I was a weird child who struggled to fit in anyway and her slagging off popular stuff in front of my friends really didn’t help. 

When my own daughter was into Friendship is Magic she tried to start it up again, assuming that I’d agree with her - she’s still completely baffled by how totally I shut that shit down. I think she’s made a picture in her mind of who I am, and any time it conflicts with the actual real person her brain just errors.
This comment aged me so much 😳
She was okey with story about dangers of arranged marriages but not okey with stories like Snow White and Cinderella where main character has active role?

Yes, I was that annoying aunt who bought colouring books and toy guitars for improvement of the kids. Yet when I was asked to buy princess dress while I was at toy shop - I so did buy that stupid thing and dragged it to the kid. (I was given picture which dress and size)
It is interesting that she was pushing Merida on you without understanding the real meaning of that movie. The whole plot is about a mom that wants her daughter to act according to what she thinks is correct without taking into account what her daughter wants and wishes, she pushes Merida to the limit and Merida take things out of control, as a rebel teenager would might act. So, she wanted you to have as a role model a rebel young girl going after what she wated and creating a chaos, that was fixed, on her mission to not be like her mom; while treating you like a prop for her beliefs, so contradictory. 

NTA, don't let her tears to make you feel bad. You just clarified the story giving your point of view, you are no longer the 8yo that will bend over your mom's ideas.
That's kinda pathetic so she was the grown up version of the 2010's "not like other girls" pick me which was more commen for teenagers to have at the time-and she tried to force you to be like her. YIKES. NTA  you're mom sounds insufferable. And also don't apologize or feel bad on her crying, she should've been hit with the full brutal truth and you to stand up for yourself.  That instead of her made up-self-serving-memory-she had done something fucked up and matched up to the evil queen because that's how she acted like.  Cause that was needlessly cruel and she was no way the victim of this.
damn.... my mom hated cinderella and all she did was kick the VHS under the couch!
The mum who wrote “Cinderella ate my daughter” took such a gentle, empathetic approach. If your mum was using that blog as her role model for this hotdog thing, she grossly missed the point. 

As a parent, I use some of the techniques in that blog to gently expand my child’s perspective, without directly tearing down anything he loves.
Both Cinderella and snow White are about children with step parents, did your mum by chance grow up with a step mum or an adult who wasn't her biological parent? Or did she deal with a lot of patriarchy ? Was she a tom boy? anything that could explain why she feels so strongly about  Aurora, Cinderella and snow White vs Mulan and Merida?
Wait.....Belle was ok!?!? Like if you are perfect enough you'll change him? Like yeah he screams and throws shit but you just need to be better is ok?
I don't remember Sleeping Beauty much, but Cinderella was so strong and resilient. She had absolutely nothing, but she stayed kind and held onto her dreams. Poverty and abuse can make people cruel and selfish because they have no reason to think the world will be kind and they have so little that sharing hurts. The resilience to stay herself even under those circumstances, to know that she didn't deserve her treatment, is a great trait in a Queen. When you have everything, it can be easy to think you deserve it and therefore others deserve their poverty, or to hoard things like a dragon. If Cinderella can stay herself, and know that her good fortune is good luck, like her cruel stepmother was bad luck, she can be a good co-ruler and treat her people fairly.


Sometimes people are trapped and can't help themselves. That doesn't make them weak. What was Cinderella supposed to do, run out into the streets and starve? She had somewhere warm to sleep, she was hungry but not dying, and she was, what, max 17 in the Disney movie? Maybe she had plans for when she was older. Maybe when her stepsisters were gone, she'd have an opportunity. Her stepmother might not keep her on, or, at the very least, there'd be less work. Maybe she was always hoping marriage would be her way out, because she just didn't have that many other options. Either way, Cinderella's strength was in not becoming like her stepmother. 


...actually, that could be an interesting prequel. If the stepmother's life had been just like Cinderella's and that had made her bitter, selfish, and grasping. 
Man I loved Mulan. She came out a year after I was born and I was more obsessed with her than titanic, thankfully for everyone around me after I played a cassette to death and almost killed the cassette player too. 

My mom hated my weeaboo phase and that I wasn’t a girly girl who liked makeup and polos, but she let me dress however I wanted on Halloween, within reason of course. I had some pretty dumb Halloween ideas too.
what is “Cinderella ate my daughter”?
I’ve read the book - as soon as I read your story I wondered if she had read the book - very on brand. The book’s not wholly wrong, but there are SOOOOOOO many other ways to go about giving girls strength. Kinda sounds like she did that by accident considering your strength in sharing the story today. Good for you.
I’m going to preface my comment by saying what your mom did was inexcusable and gross. And she absolutely deserved to have you call her on it. 

I’m a mom to a teenaged daughter, and when she was a child, I refused to introduce her to an entire generation of  princess movies starting with *The Little Mermaid* and going all the way back to *Snow White*. I find them icky and deeply rooted in the patriarchy. 

I would *NEVER* have denied her a costume and done a bait and switch like that. Talk about ruining your autonomy. 

Once my daughter was much older, she did see those other princess movies. She always preferred the “newer” princesses, but I would’ve gotten her the correct costume regardless. Your mom was shitty and selfish.
And she created that false memory by lying to herself about what happened. *If* it's a false memory, at some point she absolutely knew what the truth was and decided to lie to herself about it, which isn't an excuse.
>It's sounds like she created false memory in her head

So, lying. To herself first so she can lie to others too without feeling bad about it.
>Mom lied so often she convinced herself it was true
Sounds like her mom is trying to gaslight people and rewrite a story in her own vision before others get a chance to tell it. Also it seems like she's a serial joy stealer and it was too temping to cut her daughter down in front of her boyfriend.
NTA.

Sometimes a girl’s first bully is their mother and guess what she showed you that she still kind of is because she had no reason to bring this up and you try to be a good daughter and never talked about it again, but she had to bring it up so you’re not the asshole. 

Also, you are not the manager of her feelings and if she’s upset over that she can talk to you about it, but it’s not on your brother to play peacekeeper either.
I feel your pain; the first Halloween I can remember, my mother dressed me up as the Wicked Witch from The Wizard of Oz, and I absolutely hated everything about it. I was like 4 or 5, and I think I would have liked to be a princess but I was really too young to know much about what was going on, but I do remember feeling terribly ugly and hideous, and of course people would look at me and say, "How scary!" in a tee-hee sort of way, and it set such a bad tone that I've never liked Halloween. My mother had a thing for dressing me in whatever she liked in the beginning. The year after that she made me be Holly Hobbie, and I detested Holly Hobbie. On top of all that, I was an EXTREMELY shy child, so putting on a costume so all the adults would want to come over and look at/talk to me was EXCRUCIATING. I hated the whole damn thing. It got a little better when I was old enough to say what I wanted to be, but it's still always been one of my least favorite holidays.

My mom wasn't as mean about it, though, I definitely didn't tell her I wanted to be something else, because I really didn't understand the whole business at that point. I'm sure she thought I'd enjoy it once I was doing it, but I did NOT. I think mine was mostly clueless, but the way your mother dogged on you about it in front of your boyfriend was not okay.  I hope she doesn't regularly do stuff like that to you. NTA at all.
Shitty is shitty is shitty. Just because it wasn’t as bad as others doesn’t mean it sucks any less, this is coming from someone w a very traumatic childhood. NTA.
Girl, your mom tried to gaslight you about her own bullying, and you didn't let her.

I'm glad she's embarrassed. She should be.

My mom tried this on me telling a story about how firm her discipline skills were when she made me stand in the corner all day while my dad took my siblings to the water park.

And I reminded her that the reason was she thought I had touched her laptop over-night, and she made me stand in the corner for 12 hours until I admitted it (I never did) and my dad [IT tech] confirmed that 
- A): it was password protected.
- B): he checked the router/network log, which only he has access to, and confirmed no internet activity the entire night.

She never apologized. And I promised I would never let her meet her grandkids. (I was 10, I'm now 36, and it's the longest promise I've ever committed to.)
Even birds in golden cages suffer from not being able to spread their wings.


This was a purposeful humiliation that your mother took glee in doing to you. She used taking away your joy to punish you for trying to be helpful. That is an awful thing for anyone to have to hold inside.


NTA she deserves to be reminded of her cruelty since she "brags" about it to this day.
I’m sorry but your mom deserves to cry. She finally realized how she made you feel.
She punished you because you tried to make a dinner for your family and made a mess. At 8 years old. She knew then what she was doing and she was just careless and did not stop to think how much it would influence you. 

She was cruel and it is good she finally realizes, she does not need to remember the moment she tried so hard to humiliate you fondly. 
>which I am well aware means I had a pretty good childhood overall

No... that was an extremely fucked up thing for her to do. She ignored what you wanted, threatened to take away your favorite movie, publicly shamed you, and to top it off she's *so* disconnected from your emotional experience that she then retold it later as a funny story. You don't need to make these disclaimers about how it wasn't that bad or she did her best or whatever else people say. I highly doubt this was the only time she was self-centered and mean. Just because she was also nice sometimes doesn't mean you need to make excuses for the times she was cruel.
I feel sorry for you because I know too many childhood traumatic stories like that. A girl I knew wasn't allowed to paint her nails because someone didn't pay attention to her dad while doing that when he was young. Kids were forced to sit at home while everyone else went trick or treating because their parents were too religious etc. I personally was bullied by my mother and told that I looked ugly without a fringe going into my eyes while literally everyone else is convincing me to this day that I actually look way younger with my hair combed back.
Your mom has to come to terms with the fact she failed you because of her own desire to be qUiRkY. Your mom sucks massively. This would be a good time to bring up any other humiliation she made you endure as a child just so all the hurt can get out at one time.

NTA. Your mom made bad choices as a parent and needs to live with the fact that those choices were torture for you. She wanted to treat you like an accessory and not a person, and she deserves to know that her choices were wrong and caused you distress.
Honey, I know how you feel. My mother used to recount shitty memories for me as hilarious experiences instead. And having a good childhood otherwise doesn't negate how horrible this was for you as a child, nor does it excuse her making a joke of it now. I'm so sorry. ❤️
She is a grown a$$ adult, and she was a grown a$$ adult even back then. My mom is the same way about "revised" memories that she thinks were hysterical when I was humiliated or totally abandoned by my parents. I started calling her on it about 10 years ago and it was a rough 5 years, where she tried to make me feel bad for calling her out on truly unkind behavior, both then and now, but I held my ground. She figured out how to deal with the "trauma" of me being honest at some point and it's largely stopped.  It's gonna suck for a while, but setting new boundaries always does. Stick it out and don't back down. You are not responsible for managing your behavior so that she doesn't have to manage her emotions. It gets better.
Hey OP, obviously you're NTA. However, the way you talk about feeling about yourself never being able to be pretty or worthy is an awfully painful way to think about yourself. It's just my small, humble opinion, but maybe you should talk to someone in a therapy session about this. Thats a really harsh thing to feel and I'm worried there might be other things too that have made you feel this way. A therapist can help you unpack all of that and be at peace with that memory and any other negative ones that might be affecting you
Your mom was 45 when she did that to you?!?!?!? 

Like a fully grown, middle-aged adult thought that was appropriate to do to a child. I think she deserved much harsher than that, personally. 

I thought your mom would have been like 23 at most when you were 8 based on your story.
If you could handle that at what? 7?  She can stand to hear about it now.

She isn’t suffering months of taunts from classmates.  

She threatened a child by taking away your favorite movie because she knew you hated it. And she did it anyway.  

I’m glad overall you had a good childhood but honestly some parents don’t think about that stuff from their child’s perspective.
This person you've replied to here seems to be gibing your mom a lot of credit... is it deserved? Nc the story as a whole sounds more like narcissist parenting. 
I am the 3rd girl in my family so lots of hand-me-downs. I remember being about 7 or 8 and wearing this pretty blue dress that was so soft, my favorite because it was light and thin and soft and when I spun it would twirl so prettily.

I remember once spinning in the living room in this dress and my mom walking through and making the comment that it was about time to get rid of this dress. I stopped spinning right that second. “No, we can’t get rid of it. It’s so pretty!” And my mom immediately retorted with, “Yeah, it’s pretty ugly” she was so proud of how quick that quip was but I have never forgotten. In fact, after that dress disappeared, I pretty much leaned into the tomboy thing and exclusively shopped in the boys section after that. 

A few years later when I was about 11 or 12 we were at Walmart and I went to the boys section to look at shorts and my mom stood there with the basket watching me and then I hear her say, nice and loud for anyone nearby to hear, “just because I let you shop in the boys section doesn’t mean you can be gay.”

Mom’s can be the worst sometimes. If your mom is anything like mine, when you bring it up later they’ll go on the defensive,” I guess I was just a horrible mother” and cry and self-pity that they were doing the best they could. Now, it’s like I can’t say anything without her immediately saying I’m just trying to make her sound bad or that it never happened.

Good luck, hope your mom realizes the scars are still there and stops sharing the story as she remembers it and the pictures. NTA
I’m the VP of the Traumatize Your Parents Back club. 

Sometimes parents genuinely think their bad actions were funny; their peace over your bad memories shouldn’t have to continue just to “keep everyone happy”.
I don’t understand how she could not have realized what an absolute cruel asshole she was being to her young child. NTA. Maybe she reconstructed it in her head later to make it more palatable to her memories but man that was an awful thing to do to you. I hope it was out of character.
It was a really cruel and over-the-top reaction by your mom. I am the mother of two adult daughters, ages 31 and 35, and although I was not a perfect mother (no one is), I would never have subjected them to this sort of humiliation. 

Your mom traumatized you, and she's now getting a small taste of how she made you feel. You didn't do anything wrong, and you have nothing to feel badly about. Your mom owes you an apology.
My wife's racist family members always made her dress up as a native during 1800s get together. She wanted to dress like her admittedly whiter looking cousins, but no. Adults can be assholes to kids. It still bothers her 2 decades later.
Oh how i relate to this. Some on here may have read my "surprise home haircut" story -- this has some similarities. It was "only hair" just like your experience was "only a costume" (meaning it wasn't) -- the social and emotional fallout was persistent and lasting. I was the clownish froggie who wasn't "allowed" to look or feel pretty and feminine, and they were the fairy princesses. Yet mother wrongly insists I looked like a cute pixie, not like an awkward boy.
Your mom deserves to cry. She deserves to feel bad for what she did to you in what could have been one of your best memories ever, she chose to make it the worst. You wanting to do something for your family should have been seen as a positive not a negative even if it didn't work out. 

My daughter is 5 and my son 8. They're not me. I don't get to choose for them. I often have to check my ego about stuff so they can be their own people. It was her job as Mom to do the same thing.
she lied to herself so much about it, she probably really thought it was like that by now
The line between "I thought I was doing a good thing but didn't realize it turned out bad" and "I'm a self-centered asshole who doesn't care how I affect other people" is sadly incredibly fuzzy. 

I call it the failure point of the golden rule. Sometimes people know they like X and even though they've been told person B doesn't like X they cannot conceptualize it, so they assume they just need to find the right words/situation/variation to show person B that no, they like X too, actually!

It goes double for parents because a depressing number of them never accept that their child is a whole separate person with their own inner life separate from the parent.
My parents stayed friends with my abusive ex boyfriend from high school after I went to college, realized it was fucked up, and dumped him.

They let him house sit many times.  They paid him to sleep in my bed.  One time he had a new girl he brought over and he fucked her.  In. My. Bed.  The neighbors noticed the new girls car in the driveway overnight and we're like "that ain't right" (small town, everyone knows everyone and their cars).  When my mom went to change the sheets before I came home for a weekend she found all the bedding caked in cum with new girls hair strands dried in it.  That was the last straw for them.   Not my protests that he was actually a creep and not to let him in anymore.  No, dont listen to me, but do freak out about cum sheets.
My mom said my abusive ex would always have a special place in her heart 🙄
My mom would do this (explicitly dredge up stuff in front of my boyfriend, presumably so I would be too embarrassed to contradict her in front of an audience). 

I called her out every single time. She would cry, ask me why I was always so mean to her, blame me for not being able to have a nice visit/lunch/outing/whatever.

Like, no. You’re the one trying to rewrite history constantly. I’m over here fact checking because while I’m willing to have a relationship, I’m not willing to pretend the events of my childhood didn’t happen. Absolutely fucking not.

Well, this went on for 10 years or so before it became abundantly clear that my mom’s need to preserve her narrative was far more important than my needs or our relationship. 

We are no longer in contact.

I am NOT saying that that is a foregone conclusion in your case. Nor am I advocating for cutting off a parent (that’s a deeply personal and individual decision). 

What I am saying is that your mom’s sadness over this isn’t on you. She is feeling guilty for doing something incredibly fucking shitty to her own child. 

She SHOULD feel guilty! She SHOULD cry! And she should own up to it and sincerely apologize for it on *your* terms, not hers.
How do the pics look? Like now looking at the pics can she tell you were miserable????
What your mom did was abusive. If she's crying over how horrible she was to you thats a good thing. If she's crying over you being "mean" to her she's probably still being abusive. Absolutely despicable behavior on her part and zero excuse for her telling it as this cute quirky story.

NTA at all. If this is a pattern of behavior for her, I would consider going low contact. If this is a one off, she owes you a big apology for the damage she did, but I wouldn't blow up the relationship over it.
My Mum and Narcissist Dad constantly reinvented the past to minimise or humorise my humiliation and trauma. It was great for bonding /s.
There’s a book called “Adult Children of Emotionally Immature Parents”. Obviously I don’t know you, but this story makes me think it might be helpful to you.
Does your mom pull shit like this all the time?
What’s with her claiming you requested the hot dog costume? Revisionist history to make herself feel better for being a shitty parent and person or just truly sadistic lying to humiliate you all over again 12 years later in front of your bf?

NTA 

Good for you for setting the record straight. She can keep her tears—nobody cares. She was the asshole that day and again when she repeated the false narrative in front of your bf. 

She damn well should feel bad. It only took a little over a decade for her to understand how shitty she was to you. Mom of the decade award to her.
Didn’t this happen in like 2016? I remember there were news and pics of people hailing a little girl dressed as a hot dog while as a hero while the other girls dressed as princesses. The story is even worse if it is.
Agreed. You know what I’m sick of all my kid’s (5) shows. I don’t make fun of them or tell her she can’t dress up as Gabby or whatever. You know what drives my husband insane - the Barbie theme song. But if she wanted to be Barbie for Halloween you better expect to see a giant Ken walking next to her. I’d probably be the RV.
maybe she had reinterpreted the thing in her mind as a happy memory about her/OP creative spririt (and maybe early feminism) and did only discovered how she hurted her daughter, twice, as OP reacted. I feel it may be more egocentric than wanting to humilate. So OP you did the right thing, you're NTA to make her discover others have feelings, she hurted yours in childhood, she just kept on in adulthood. It's not you who makes her cry, its her suddenly seing herself in a new light, as a not so good mother
honestly, it's entirely possible that mom wasn't trying to embarrass op, but genuinely convinced herself that op had loved that costume. it's not at all uncommon for parents to have vastly different recollections of childhood events. still shitty though.
The problem is the mother may have actually thought she did good there and it was a sweet memory.

My mother has stories like this where I let her know. "No I felt betrayed. Because everything you told me to do you then went behind me and made me the insane villain. If I so much as got mad for being punched in class in front of the teacher. I was sent to the principal. She was called in and it was always. 'Just ignore them, they will go away. Just don't get mad.' Sorry I was never taught where the switch on human beings is to turn off emotions." This after at home being told it is not just okay to fight back if someone punches you. But you Should. My mother looks like a train wreck when this one comes up.
I thought this was the narcissistic parents sub when I read the post.
You two are just the wurst.
You’re a hot dog
This one was my favourite!
Amazing comment 💋
Hmm, might be, not a Snow White to be seen
Ok, good to know. I thought I was going crazy. 
I definitely remember it being a quirky Tumblr girl post.
I'm surprised no one is picking up on the anti feminist caricature going on here. It's giving tradwife.
Like, this wasn’t even cleverly written. I get rallying against forced quirkiness, trust me. I saw a family force their kids into a Star Wars family themed costume and it made me cringe irl. 

However, OP stole this from an easily traceable news story. Like why not just make it full anti-Tumblr and say she forced you to dress up as a slice of pizza until you cried and when you finally stood up for yourself, have your brother and boyfriend clap at the end?
I remember the Batman one, too.  My daughter loves super heroes.  She's been Robin, Superman (in a skirt but she was adamant that she was Superman), Captain America (Sam Wilson  version), and Miles Morales' Spiderman.  She's also been a sparkly witch, Ana from Frozen, a mermaid, and this year she's a princess in a sparkly dress with a tiara and a scepter.  

Sure, be Batman.  But be Batman because you like Batman, not because stereotypically girly things are lesser than stereotypically boyish things.  Princesses are awesome and so are superheroes, genitals are unrelated.
batman's a scientist
My mom recorded me having a meltdown when I was a kid. It's on a dvd now and I've been thinking of uploading it privately for safe keeping cause it's so messed up. I'd bet for a lot of them it's a core memory and seeing it just brings up the feelings all over again. It's less embarrassment and way more wow I can't believe my parent recorded me when I was this upset. It's like a slap in the face for how terrible of a parent you had. Good parents would comfort you or not goad you on just for a more dramatic filming. It definitely hurts.

My only benefit was the lack of easy recording my parents had. Current kids are absolutely screwed. At least they have more content to compete with so it might forever be burried but yeah
Yeah, literally most of the things I see cross posted or "recommended" from the kidsarefuckingstupid sub are much more like parents/adultsarefuckingstupid/cruel
Thanks for being *that person* so I don't incorrectly repeat the phrase either 😅  good point about internet stranger correction being better than, for example, coworker or client correction
I started typing this exact comment, based off wikipedia, but luckily I also checked dictionaries as force majeure also has a dictionary definition of "superior or irresistible force" 

[https://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/force%20majeure](https://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/force%20majeure)
Did not expect to open Reddit after a few days and get emotional with this convo 🥹 it was a long time ago but thank you, your words healed a bit that small part of myself. In another world, I was the sparkliest fairy and you were the prettiest Snow White!
Exactly. 

I think OP wrote a really interesting fanfic to accompany the photo.
My mom believes in multiple universes and stuff like that. But I think she ultimately uses it as a deflection tactic to take blame off of her. Ex: Like I didn’t do that. It had to be your “other mom” you’re remembering. I think she has mental issues she’s never had fully addressed.
Now that you've reminded her of the truth (and cried) I wonder if she has it in her to apologize now.
You’re allowed to feel like it sucked. And to say that it sucked. You can’t control how your mom reacts to that, her feelings of guilt are her own — don’t take it upon yourself to feel guilty for speaking the truth.
I’m only now recognizing how messed up my childhood was.  My parents tried to tell it wasn’t but my God this brings back memories.
I really get that.  My mom's version of my childhood and my relationship with my father is so different than actual reality.  It makes me question if there are alternate realities and my mother lives in one of those.  It's infuriating.  I just let it go.  Her version has no bearing on my adult reality.

That said, if we are together and people ask me if I was close to my father.  Well, she instantly jumps in with "YES!".  I took her aside and said that if she answers for me again, I will spill some very gory details, so perhaps she should let me answer the question.
I had the complete opposite experience. I was the weird kid and my mom wanted me to be the normal little girl into shopping and makeup and dresses. It doesn't really matter the circumstances though. As kids we knew we didn't fit our parent's ideals and that hurts. It adds a layer of complexity to already trying to figure out who we are and what we want. I'm 35 and still have issues speaking up about what I want as a result of disappointing her consistently. I know she loves me, but never really felt like she liked me as a person. I still don't as she now calls me stuck up as I distanced myself emotionally and geographically. My mother also remembers it wrong and gets upset and cries when I point it out. Some moment in time I just realized she's allowed to feel whatever she wants to feel and it's not my job to police it. It's more emotionally damaging to me acting like everything was great when it wasn't. I tried for so long not contradicting her so I wouldn't upset her and I just can't do it anymore.
Ohhh.. so that's what happens when the Not Like The Other Girls girl has kids... I'm so sorry, it sounds so awful and kinda dehumanising the way she projected onto you.
My mom likes to say, "Oh no. That can't be right. You had a good time!!" when we confront her with our recollections of someone event she's remembering fondly. 


No, mom. YOU had a good time. I just suffered through it. 
My mom likes to tell the story of my sixth birthday on Facebook every year, and always attaches a picture of me looking miserable.


My grandmother used to live with us until she died when I was five, and I never realised how much she protected me until she was gone. My sixth birthday, my mom tells everyone I insisted on a chocolate peanut butter cake. The only thing is I've never really liked chocolate cake and I'm allergic to peanuts. So everyone else got to enjoy the cake (especially my golden child brother who loved chocolate peanut butter cake...). My mom told me I got the cake I deserved because I was "really bad", and I cried because I was genuinely a well behaved kid whose biggest infraction at that age was sometimes eating a snack in the living room (my mom did all the time, and child me didn't fully understand the difference). When I was in high school, I'd comment on her post and correct the story to me having asked for a strawberry cake like I always did and her thinking it would be funny, but she'd delete my comment and ground me for at least a week


I don't believe the specific story in the op because it is an old meme, but the girl from it is not as old as op claims. However, shit like this story definitely happens a lot
Oh, after literally giving me a pot to go to the bathroom in, feeding me only the prison minimum of water and bread and keeping me locked in my room for two weeks bc I wanted to play Barbie at the neighbors house, she most definitely lost her license. 
My social worker took me out through my bedroom window after she lied and said I wasn’t there for a wellness check, walked me back to the door, said “found her”, packed up my clothes immediately and was out of there.
I think of them as the, *"I brought you into this world, and I can take you out of it!"* moms
It’s so incredibly sad, really. I give my almost 3 year old options daily. “Do you want this pair of shoes, or the other shoes?” He chooses his shoes. I present him with 2-3 outfits and I tell him to pick a shirt and shorts / pants and he does! I also let him choose which cup we take with us for an outing, and I let him choose his food too (within reason, if there’s an app or menu with pictures I let him choose, if he’s not in the mood to choose I pick something that I know is healthy and comfortable with eating. I will let him choose a sweet treat and request it to be brought AFTER we’re finished with our main course.) I also let him get a decaf iced coffee when I get a coffee and I let him get a cookie or donut because he’s always good, and says “please Mom, I’m a good kid.” 🥹

He also is great at taking turns and sharing, and we have taught him to be a good friend and listener through our gentle teachings and reminders. We want him to grow up to be a good person, son, friend, partner and maybe even dad one day. We want him to know his potential and how to seize his day and get the most out of it. We know one day he’s going to be an adult and out of our home, and we want him to be the best person he can be.
It’s horrible; I know some believe women are like this with their daughters because they don’t like sharing the attention with their husband. Like they can’t stand him loving or caring for another female, even if it’s their own daughter. My uncle divorced one of his wives who saw his daughter as competition (she was nuts though, she tried to run my cousin over when she was on a jog one day… LONG STORY! She just didn’t want to “share” my uncle and his love… She literally destroyed his house when he told her he was done, to pack her things and go because she said it was his daughter or her.)
Yes! 100%! My son is almost 3 and chose his this year! Pit Crewman!
I know, we facilitated and there was a little pressure about Obélix because she wasn't keen but decided she'd rather do that than have to explain to the teacher.

Funny that neither of them had any desire to be Hermione
She wanted a different kind of kid than I was. It got a little better once I hit high school and she turned her focus on my brother and finally let me try out for cheerleading instead of basketball, but middle school and before, she was constantly trying to mold me into some sort of counter-culture girl who she could say was sooo much smarter and better than the other girls. It made it hard to make friends, and once I had those friends, it felt like she was sabotaging it constantly because she thought they were "beneath me" for having the same interests I had.
My brother in law desperately did not want his girls to be big into princesses. I'm not sure why, but he was super adament that we don't promote the princess movies to his daughters. Of course frozen came out when they were little and they were super obsessed. Thank god he didnt try to stop them. He just accepted it and let them do their thing, and they ended up growing out of it fairly quick. I was so glad he didn't try to push the issue with them and make them feel bad for liking what they like.
It's possible mom is just a "not like other girls" person considering her problems surround very stereotypical female things like make up and dresses.
Honestly it sounds like the mom had "not like the other girls" syndrome. She didn't like dresses or makeup or doing housework like all the other Stepford wives, and decided to reject them before they could reject her. The mom tried to mold OP to be this quirky, off beat punky brewster Tom boy, but OP wasn't interested
Apparently she was bullied a lot in school or something and wanted me to grow up "daring to be different" or something.
That's such a Buzzfeed mums thinking. I was raised by one. Snow White and other “feminine” Disney princesses are bad role models for young girls. And more “tomboyish” princesses are better. Totally ignoring the fact that Snow White was a victim of abuse. She also didn't clean up the dwarves' cottage because it was her role as a woman. At first, because she saw the little beds and thought they were orphans and feel bad for them. And later, because she didn't expect the tiny men to let her in for free and wanted to make herself useful. 
If she was 45 with an 8-year-old the other moms may not have had much in common with her. They were probably in their late 20s, early 30s, a whole generation apart.
Oh my god I forgot about the my little pony hate! She said one of the ponies was a bimbo, the one who would always stammer and then say "oh you know what I mean." I can't remember much because it got banned from our house when I was like two.
Man, Friendship is Magic is a great show, too
> I think she’s made a picture in her mind of who I am, and any time it conflicts with the actual real person her brain just errors.

My inlaws are like that. They have a picture in their mind of each of their sons, and don't know how to handle the fact their pictures are wrong. They had a picture of the kind of spouses they would marry, kids they would have, jobs they would have, lifestyle, even appearance. (All very 1950's sitcom kind of roles too) My MIL still buys clothes for my husband that look nothing like anything he'd ever want to wear. My daughter is their only grandchild, and when she was tiny they made it very clear they thought she'd be an ultra-girly, all-pink-all-the-time, delicate, shy,  fainting flower, kind of a girl.  One time, my FIL actualy told me I should try to make my daughter "like pink more" because she said pink is her second favorite color, light blue is her favorite. 

 At nine my kid does love long dresses, tea parties, nail polish and all things girly, but also loves dinosaurs, and snakes, and rockhounding, and sports, and video games, and superheroes. She strikes up conversations with everybody she meets, and LOVES the wildest rollercoasters she's tall enough to go on. One of her favorite historical figures is [Alice Roosevelt](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alice_Roosevelt_Longworth) and she talks about wanting to write fan letters to [Sue Hendrickson](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sue_Hendrickson), [David Attenborough](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/David_Attenborough), and [Ruth Goodman](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ruth_Goodman). (She loves documentaries with  Attenborough or Goodman) I swear, sometimes my inlaws look like their brain bluescreened when they are interacting with my kid, and they every so often try to tell me I "need to make her be more normal" or "More like other little girls"
Brave came out in 2012, which was 4 years ago.
Huh. I never actually thought of that.
Belle read books and dreamed of adventure in the great wide somewhere and rejected Gaston and was sooo much better than the blondes, and so my mom was way more forgiving of her issues.
I'm guessing it's because Belle read books and "wasn't like the other girls" who threw themselves at Gaston. 

I also liked Belle when I was a child, for those same reasons. But as an adult, I look back and am quite put off by how condescending she was to the "poor provincial town" that she was soooo much better than.

Like, when she sings, "There goes the baker with his tray like always/the same old bread and rolls to sell/every morning just the same, etc." and I just think, "Yes, because *someone* needs to make the bread that *you* eat, princess! We can't all sit around on our butts reading stories for fun!"
[deleted]
Yeah, this. When I was nine, my mother literally tried to instruct me in this exact same thing. She did something truly horrific that resulted in the death of three of our pets, but she came up with a cockamamie story that she insisted I tell everyone (it involved adult indoor cats getting parvovirus…). She went on to insist that if I kept telling people enough, eventually I would believe it myself and it would be the truth. Definitely not true. I still remember what she did like it’s a movie in my mind.
Exactly this. False memories like this are created through decades of lying to yourself.
Mum might have had a different narrative she manufactured over time, where OP liked the costume, and that narrative forced its way in to be a core memory overriding OPs reality.

 She may have been crying because she realised after all these years her memory wasn't shared, and she was shithouse.

NTA
Right. I recently told my mom that I never felt Like she liked me at all..and she responded by not talking to me anymore so that answered that question.

Luckily I have great friends a great husband and a great job so I'm fine.
My mum was my first bully and never realised til we were adults. My siblings and I were bringing up things like “yeah I never wore shorts because mum said my legs look weird”, “I stopped talking as much after mum said I only ask/say dumb things”, “I only wore sports bras because mum said my breasts bouncing looked like I was trying to get guys attention” (from 12-22, she just grew massive out of nowhere) etc. Mum said “I just wanted you be prepared for things your classmates might say, kids are mean” and we were like “it just made you the mean one”. To be fair, our brother was heavily bullied in lower primary school and she was overprotective from there.
"Sometimes a girl's first bully is their mother." Ok, but why did you have to come swinging so hard first thing in the morning. 😭
It's a commercial on TV right now.   A ballet studio with six or seven or 12 girls dressed as princesses in one happy girl in a hot dog costume.
I just want to say, SOLIDARITY for hating Holly Hobbie!  I was a kid in the 70s, and my name is Holly.  You can \*imagine\* how many times people called me that.  And I always hated the pictures of her (no visible face! creepy!) and the whole schtick.

However, I can't claim to any Halloween trauma. My Mom was oddly lenient about letting me be whatever I wanted to be, even though very often I basically dressed as a boy. (I was a jockey one year; I was a cowboy - in the sense that I wasn't specifically a cowgirl; one year I went as Paul Revere, must have been around the time of the Bicentennial. I don't remember her ever forcing me to wear a costume I didn't want to.)

But yeah, as told here, OP's mom REALLY sucks.  The things about it that OP describes are exactly the kinds of details that would stick in a kid's mind, even though my bet is that the adult forgot about the unpleasant parts of it (or didn't know or pay attention to the rest). Like, of course it's going to stick in the kid's mind \*forever\* that mom threatened never to allow her to watch her favorite movie if she didn't wear the costume. But I can see that being the kind of thing an adult forgets quickly (especially if she didn't really mean it; but you can't do that to a kid, to the kid you \*absolutely\* mean it and it's a far greater threat than it appears to the adult).

I do half suspect that her mom was telling the story to the boyfriend because time and the way we can warp our own memories made it so that to her, it actually \*was\* a funny, quirky little story that doesn't mean anything bad. It may even be one of mom's treasured memories.  She probably didn't know how much OP got teased by the other girls.  So she'd built this nostalgic little narrative about it, that strayed from what really happened to make it rosier.

She really deserved the reality check.  It's fucked up that she made her kid dress as a hot dog just because the kid tried to cook hot dogs and made a mess.  Who the fuck does that?  Assholes, that's who.  Kids make mistakes, especially when they're learning. There is no way that kid-OP ruined an entire dinner or permanently damaged the kitchen or anything -- but even if she had, \*mocking\* your child for taking a chance and trying to do something, by humiliating them, is... really sick. (Honestly, Dad should have put a stop to that; and HE knew the importance of being Snow White to his daughter.). Threatening to prohibit viewing her favorite movie was just assholery piled on top of assholery.

I don't care if OP's mom had built up this rosy, false memory around the whole thing. She really deserved to hear how it looked from the perspective of the poor kid forced to do it as a punishment for trying to do something nice for her family.
 I grew up in a very physically/verbally/emotionally abusive environment. Many times I've had friends come to me with "minor" hurtful things their parents have done, and then, when they find out about my childhood say; Oh I guess my complaints are nothing, it must seem so petty/ridiculous to you. It doesn't. I always tell people there is no "trauma olympics", everything is relative. The worst I've ever felt is the same as the worst you've ever felt, relatively speaking, and I don't compare, I just sympathize.
Forcing someone to stand 12h still must be against all human right laws
Oof six months ago I told my partner I'd never make his mother food again, cause she disrespected the shit out of me (I was cookingfor her 4 days a week. It's my love language). We're friendly otherwise but she throws a fit every time I make something she likes and she doesn't get some. He tried ONCE to talk me in to making her food so he wouldn't have to hear about it. I told him I'm 36, and committed at 17 to never speaking to my OWN father again. And I haven't. If I'm not willing to sacrifice my boundaries for my own parents, I'm certainly not going to for someone else's. Took me almost 20 years to say " No.", I'm not giving it up now.
Too bad, OP's mom is probably only crying because she felt vilified and wronged. Nothing like some crocodile tears to gaslight people into thinking they are all innocent and that the other party is the one at fault.
She also lied by saying OP *asked* to be a hot dog for Halloween
I can't believe she threatened to ban the movie if OP didn't wear the costume!
My thoughts exactly. This was an incredibly cruel thing for a parent to do to their child. OP was punished with public shaming for the sin of trying to cook. Mom knew that OP wanted to be Snow White, and knew all the rest of the girls were going to be princesses, and knew that by sending her child to school in a hot dog costume, her child would be ostracized, ridiculed, and bullied. 

One of my (shockingly narc) mom’s favorite anecdotes is from when I was right about to start high school. I told her I didn’t want to be in the band anymore, that I wanted to join choir instead, and she said “oh well just meet the band director, just talk to him and see if maybe you’d like it” with the implication being I would chat with him for a few minutes and then leave with her. She drove me to what I would find out was the first meeting of marching band for the year. She parked and took me in to meet with him and then turned around and left. That’s the story of how I was tricked into joining the high school band. Being tricked by a parent so nonchalantly eroded my trust so much. My point here being - this was one of many examples of my mom exerting control over me through emotional manipulation and deception. I used to not understand why this moment upset me so much, even as she and family would laugh and say “oh your mom is always right, you know how she is” as though she could be right about overriding a choice I had already made about my own electives, especially when I was so passionate about singing and was meh about other instruments. 

OP, I would encourage you to revisit other times in your past where you’ve felt manipulated or hurt by your mom. Maybe this was the only time she did something like this to exert control over you. Maybe you uncover that there is a pattern of harm. I don’t know you or your family dynamics, but the fact that you’re minimizing and hedging this event that was seemingly very negative and traumatic makes me wonder what else you’re unconsciously downplaying.
I think people make excuses for their parents cruelty for themselves, not for their parents. Its really hard to own that your parents are just people (maybe shitty people)  when you spend so much of your formative years viewing them as gods. I also think there's this made up scale of trauma that people use. I grew up in a very physically/verbally/emotionally abusive environment. Many times I've had friends come to me with "minor" hurtful things their parents have done, and then, when they find out about my childhood say; Oh I guess my complaints are nothing, it must seem so petty/ridiculous to you. It doesn't. I always tell people there is no "trauma olympics", everything is relative. The worst I've ever felt is the same as the worst you've ever felt, relatively speaking, and I don't compare, I just sympathize.
And OP's right, her mom was trying to humiliate her in front of her boyfriend.
You have a strange stereotype of how age affects parenthood.
I disagree, I think there’s a huge gap between well intentioned behavior that goes wrong and what OPs mother did here.   Well intentioned behavior doesn’t involve threats.  Well intentioned behavior doesn’t involve completely ignoring and disregarding what the person actually says.  
"I'll always be grateful to him, even if you aren't."
I absolutely agree but I also think it's incredibly weird how easily shitty people can turn on the tears when called out. In OP's case her mom waited until she was gone and did it in front of her brother, which looks manipulative AF.
...are you my older brother? Serious question 
Ugh. Me too. Tried for decades and went no contact.
 Letting your parents pretend that everything they did was perfect is a terrible way to approach your adult parent-child relationship. We (the parents) need to hear about this to reconcile our self image with who we were to you (the children).

My own parents are still pretty crappy about admitting to the past. Denial is an addictive drug so I don’t really bother anymore. 

However, I make a point of telling my kid that I probably messed up plenty. I’ve asked him to tell me about it when those memories come up for him.

We’ve had a couple of hard (painful) conversations about times I’ve hurt him. They’re important for him to get out there. 

It’s cathartic to say it out loud. I sincerely believe that it helps heal our inner child when our parents affirm our version of memories and soothe our hurts.
I'm sure mom could tell but she didn't want to see it. She looks at the photos and sees what she wants to see, but an 8 year old is not a master of subtlety and you know it's written all over her face. Can you imagine all the times mom told her "funny" story and showed those pictures to people who were polite and said things like "You must have worked hard on that costume".  Those same people then left the house and were like WTF is wrong with her, that poor child.
https://www.buzzfeednews.com/article/aliciamelvillesmith/be-the-hot-dog-princess-you-want-to-see-in-the-world

Article is from 2016
My mother has a photo of me getting my first hair cut where I'm face slack staring into the camera with giant tears rolling down my face.  She thinks it's absolutely adorable that I was so upset at the time but "didn't make a sound, just had those big ol tear drops rolling down your face". She tells this story at dinner parties. 

I was too young to actually remember this moment. But I also lived in a "stop crying or I'll give you something to cry about" household. So this story really isn't funny to me
>I’d probably be the RV.

This made me cackle! She has friends you know you don't have to be a vehicle xD
Be the talking closet from Life in The Dreamhouse😂
I'm going as Barbie this year actually!
My 5 year old daughter went as Gabby last year so I fully understand. We also just dropped 80 freaking dollars on Bluey costumes for her and her 18 months old sister. It's going to be absolutely adorable and they're beyond obsessed but why couldn't they have fallen in love with a cheaper option 😅

We're still hoping to do the parents if we can but our girls are happy and that's what matters. 

I have let my kids choose what they wanted to be since their first Halloween even if it means they picked by feel as 6 and 7 month olds. It's just not that hard or that deep to just let your kids be what they want on Halloween. 

I sized up a little this year knowing they're practically going to live as Bluey and Bingo after Halloween so at least it'll get more use then just the one day.
My eight year old wants to be Kuromi from My Melody (Hello Kitty type thing), and you can bet I’m making her the ears and tail and everything because it’s not a costume I’ve found to buy. At least not one for an eight year old that falls in my budget.
My dad never understood the appeal of Pokemon, but there are still pictures of my sister and I both dressed as Pikachu with him in a cheap blue wig as James from Team Rocket. It’s not rocket science to take an interest in the things your kids like and try to encourage them as they explore their interests.
Oh she definitely saw it as a feminism thing. Funny how dressing your daughter as a monarch is somehow less feminist than dressing her as a literal piece of meat...
Switching off emotions won't work either. Children see it as a challenge to get an emotion out of you. I still am learning to reconnect with my emotions cause intellictual setting boundaries often doesn't work. I need the energy of righteous anger to get the point across.
Oh, I relish when a thread like this gets going!
But you better not try to hurt her
For everyone not knowing, it's a line from Planet Hotdog from the Rocky Horror Show
I think one of OP’s comments got downvoted to hell when she brought up raising her daughters to *love* princesses and all things feminine like all girls should, missing the point entirely. 

That’s what leads me to believe some manosphere Musk N Musty dude bro wrote this.
Next year, ok? Promise me for both of us.
lol yeah I wasn't saying you were wrong, I just thought it was a funny amount of effort to put into a fake post if that's the case. spotting which princess isn't in the group that includes a hotdog to write a creative piece is some dedication!
Ugh. Felt. My mom always insists I was a tomboy and that "tiktok ruined her," but seems to forget that all the evidence of me ever being like that was stuff she forced me to do despite often very loud protests.
>My mom's version of my childhood and my relationship with my father is so different than actual reality.

My dad was like that. The last conversation I had with him before he died, he actually told me I just didn't remember my childhood clearly. And I told him that the incidents he brought up happened when I was 12 and 13.  And I can remember and describe the birthday cake I had when I turned three.
They also have a tendency to hold the birthing process over the child’s head… as if the fetus popped into existence like a Boltzmann brain or something.
I’ve seen this, unfortunately, especially as a mother of only girls. Some women want their daughters to reject “girly” things and not follow the crowd. You can get away with dressing them the way you want when they’re babies, but at a certain point they will want what they want. We need to just let kids be kids and not try to push our own views on them. 

I’m sorry this happened to you. It sounds like such a terrible moment. I think your mom had a big wake up call and maybe she didn’t understand how much her choices affected you until now. Something she saw as a funny passing thing affected you deeply, that would sting
Thats so dumb. I was really into counter culture AND was a cheerleader. I dont get the people who intsahate anything that is girly. Like you can have a variety of interests, that doesnt make someone better or worse than another
NTA. Are we siblings because we have nearly the same mom. The only difference is a personality swap. I was the classic rock loving, shop and art kid building and making things and she wanted the princess she could dress up with. She started tearing down my art really early and I would hide it from her because she would just make me feel bad about the things I made if they weren’t ‘girly’ or ‘proper’ enough. I only started making things again in my twenties after a bit of therapy and self work that all my mothers issues she tried to put on me aren’t mine to carry. But I make a point to do what you did whenever possible, parents like ours don’t live in the same reality as everyone else they will rewrite and remember history differently. Also what was key moments in our development were random days of the week to these adults. So don’t feel bad and know that it has to be done if they ever have any chance at truly atoning for their actions or knowing us as people.
My mom was like this. She loved it when I became a little goth kid. Like there was any other option for me. I wanted to be a girlscout and a cheerleader. I wanted to go to prom and have a pretty dress. I wanted the "lame" life so many of my peers had. I just wanted to be a regular girl. I missed out on all of that. My mom got to do all those things. Everyone else got to do all those things. I was left out. She had a son and still made my room the most "masculine". I had a Jean comforter. Which the thought of still bothers me. I hated that thing. I just wanted something soft. It was made of denim!
So she used this story, which was a punishment and an awful memory for you, which had a backlash that lasted for a while, to pretend and show the today world that you were indeed different from the other girls when you were young (which you weren't). Your mom is still in denial about YOUR tastes and wishes...

INFO : Where was your dad in all this? You used to watch Snow White with him. Did he agree on forbidding you to watch that film if you didn't dress up as a hot-dog? 

INFO : What is the stance of your BF on this toxic treatment of you during your childhood?
Your mom was the OG pick me girl. I’m so sorry.
I’m sorry you had to deal with your mothers internalised misogyny, you deserved better.
I'm so sorry to hear that you had this experience. I was the opposite - my entire family kept trying to make me the girly girl when I was always a tomboy. It made my skin crawl. And not gonna lie, when I found out my first baby was a girl, I dreaded the possibility of having gender norms forced at her and dreaded her becoming a girly girl.

We did gender neutral stuff when she was a baby and the bigger she's gotten, the bigger a girly girl she is. I have to remind myself sometimes not to get up my own butt about it because she may love pink and unicorns and Barbie, but she's a ferocious and strong little thing all the same. Feminism is for everyone and all interests, after all. My opinion doesn't matter, she gets to be who *she* is.

All this to say, I hope your mom gets better about seeing that you being happy to be you is the most important thing. (And also Snow White is a great role model. She got dealt a crap hand and made the best of it.)
I would have a conversation where you tell her all this. It's important to hear and she needs to not be in denial about her actions. If she continues to think she's right then she may try pushing the same behavior on any future grandchildren. 
She and probably the rest of your family needs to hear just how toxic this was for you and how it affected you growing up. 

Maybe suggest a family therapist and say your piece there with someone to moderate.
So she’s not enlightened about gender norms, she’s a mindless contrarian on the issue. I promise you, OP, that I’m a shitload more 🎉feminist🎉 than your mom, top to bottom, and Snow White is also my favorite Disney princess. 

Simplistic dumbasses like to caricature her movie as, “ugh she’s supposed to be the good guy because she’s beautiful and gentle, and she was happy to cook and clean for the Seven Dwarfs, and then she gets rewarded for her femininity performance by landing a high status man.” This is not, and never has been, how I interpreted her story. When I was a kid, I saw her as gifted with understanding and truly loving animals, and she wasn’t too good for living with a group of peasants (after leaving a PALACE), and she made the best of her situation. She did housework for the dwarfs because they were her friends- and because they were, again, friggin MINERS. Not the type of person with a lot of energy leftover when they get home from work. 

Anyway hope this is helpful in someway.
I'm so sorry for your experience, i hate when moms push their ideas/wants on kids without regard.

 My daughter was also obsessed with snow white. She's one of my least favorite princesses. To me, she's a frustrating character. However, I played that movie so many times when she requested it, and bought her the dress-up clothes and the pjs.

Before kids I was against the pink and the princess glittery glam... I evolved. There's space for it all. Whenever my kids ask for opinion about fashion and i know we won't align, i remind them we are allowed to have different tastes and as long as they love it what does it matter what I think?

Eta NTA
I’d swear we had the same mother except my mother pushed me to be the opposite of what your mother wanted. Good for you for standing up for yourself and validating your experience!!
Sounds like your mom has some pretty extreme internalized misogyny. That is not easy to grow up with as a little girl. I'm glad you never lost yourself in it, too, because that's how mothers like her are created.
Just here to affirm you. I was the opposite girl, my mom wanted a princess and I went in the scream mask for 4th grade 🫠😂. Really all we can do now is realize it wasn't our fault, tell the truth, and if we ever have kids ( I do, but I am much older than you ) listen to them and support them in becoming the best version of themselves.
It truly sounds like an insidious form of misogyny, and I’m sorry you went through all that.
I get where your mom was going, but I don't get where your mom went. 

I was big into "I'm not going to push girly stereotypes on my daughter" and decorated her room in yellow and bought her gender neutral toys. I was a counterculture alternative GenX and hated everything to do with Disney princesses. 

...and as soon as she was able to advocate for herself, she made it clear that she wanted pink, and sequins, and Polly Pocket, and Barbie, and I had a loooooong look in the mirror. Was my feminism about rejecting norms, or about respecting her autonomy? Because one of those looks like a 90s counterculture movement, and the other actually treating my daughter like a human being with her own identity. 

I figured it out. Thanks for the work you've done helping your mom figure it out. If she doesn't get it, it's on her.
I'm a little bit like this mom - never interested in fashion, makeup - more "bookworm type".   
But I sew elaborate princess dresses for my daughter, never denyied her any beauty products or fashionable clothes and she (14 yo now) is always joking that we're so different.   
I have my own personality and she has her own. Nothing wrong with her wanting to look pretty and "girlie".
She reminds me somewhat of the stupid hippy mum in the film About a Boy, who makes her son stick out like a sore thumb, then throws him to the wolves at school.
So she bullied her own daughter instead. It may not change anything, but it’s good you stood up for yourself and told the truth.
She needed therapy.
Forcing her insecurities on you = she needs some serious therapy
Honestly I mostly liked her because she sang so beautifully. And looking like me insofar as a child can look like an animated adult helped too.
Flutteryshy is as far from a bimbo as possible. She was a shy animal caretaker who turned her home into a sanctuary. 

Honestly, I used to watch Friendship is Magic back in its prime and the ponies themselves can be seen as good examples of femininity and what a girl could be. Rainbow Dash was sporty, Twilight Sparkle was intelligent, etc. 

Maybe Rarity could be described as a bimbo because she likes fashion and wanted to use the Grand Galloping Gala to hit on a prince, but she was also a business owner designing clothes for celebrities and sourced her own materials. There was also an episode where she was kidnapped by the Diamond Dogs and fended for herself when she drove them crazy into surrender.
I feel like you’re describing my mom. As a little kid (like 3-4) I liked Tina Turner and wanted to dress up like her for fun. She told me she was sleazy (I didn’t know what the word meant yet). Messed up.
I barely watched my little pony, and calling Fluttershy a bimbo is so silly. Especially considering you're calling an animated kids show pony a bimbo to a small child who wouldn't understand the context of the word then banning the show outright. I'm sorry that happened, must have been very confusing.
It is, I was so sad when my daughter stopped watching it 🤣
The way I immediately did not question this math 🤣
I never saw that as Belle shitting on the baker. She was just over the routine of it all—she literally sings “I want adventure in the great wide somewhere” later in the song. She wants out! 

I loved Belle as a kid, and I still like her now. It wasn’t about her books, though; I absolutely know that even kid me liked her because she didn’t take Beast’s shit. She stayed because she was true to her word, but she was never his doormat.
Honestly even as an adult I get that side of Belle. I don’t think it’s condescending. People in the country and smaller towns talk all the time now about wanting to move to the city. Not everyone is happy in the country and the routine. That doesn’t mean there is anything wrong with that for the people happy with it. Just different types of people.
I mean, he was *supposed* to kill her. And with the magistrate there ... Letting her live was a mercy, and was possibly the only option he had that wouldn't be written down as potential treason.

Not that I agree with it, but I can understand his motives there.
What did she do??
I was thinking the same thing because my mother does this.  She tells herself a different narrative so long and often that she starts to believe it and gets angry when we disagree.  She is emphatic that things happened the way she remembers.

She's now in her late 80s w/ dementia starting and my brother & I sometimes just look at each other silently asking "Do YOU recognize this story?".

Possibly, OPs mom felt bad about what she had done afterwards so ended up telling the story differently to make herself sound better, then she began believing it.
This is in fact just how memories work. It wasn't traumatic for her, so it shifted to a positive memory with all the little negatives ironed out.

While for OP it was an awful time, so those details remained.
I think they ignore you was a way to punish you? My mom told me she didn’t like me, and had to love me because I was her child. She stopped talking to me sometimes and eventually stopped all together. I think she thought I would turn around and beg for her attention and admit my wrong doing?
Mine told me in high school that I needed to lose weight. I actually didn't, said as much, and I was right.  When she was growing up, she and her sister were stick thin and ironed their hair, which I have always felt was a quick ticket to Nopeland. Later in college, it apparently snuck out of the mind gutter and I embarked upon a multi-year journey of eating disorders. She eventually realised, upon me telling her what she'd said, that indeed I didn't need to lose any weight then, and currently I was too thin. MAKE UP YOUR MIND. Anyway, mothers. NTA, OP. Good for you. Sometimes you've got to bang a pan full of forks against the counter before someone realises what their wonderful action/statement did to you.
My mom recently visited me and my wife (we live in another country) and I was trying to talk through some of her bizarre behavior and my wife said "It's because she just doesn't like you. She loves you, but she doesn't like you." Her theory is that I'm too much like my dad, who my mom has made a villain of in her head.
Same!! I found out after I stopped being at her beck and call. She wanted me to drive 20 minutes at 8pm to move a box. She’d always have me do stuff like that and it one day it clicked- I don’t live there anymore and she has two others living there who are more than capable of moving a box. Now we only talk around holidays. I think it’s so the rest of the family doesn’t realize that she just doesn’t care about me.
I’m your mother now lol
I fucking hate the “I just want to prepare you for bullies” excuse SO much. I can count on one hand the number of times a kid bullied me about my appearance or other things I couldn’t control (ex. one girl once made fun of my laugh), but if I had a dollar for every time my mom bullied me for that stuff I’d be able to get eras tour resale tickets.

If parents actually wanted to prepare their kids for bullies, they’d sit them down and have a conversation about how some people can be mean and rude to you for no reason, and if anyone is being especially mean to you, tell me so I can help you get it to stop. This, however, is just a sick excuse to bully someone who has little to no chance of fighting back.
Lucille: we're having Lindsay chops for dinner! oop - i mean pork chops



Lindsay: 💀 💀 💀



Lucille: i just want you to be ready in case the bullies at school are as clever as me



narrator: no bully ever would be
Right? Like I was already crying about other things when I clicked on this thread, now I’m crying about my shitty childhood too  😭 😂
So true though.. I had an argument with my mother yesterday and I suddenly realized she probably never liked me 😕 why do I even care
Me and my sister's remember all the family dinners we had regularly but my mom feels guilty because all she remembers is when the times it wasn't regular family dinners (fast food in between various practices or pizza nights) 


It's kinda amazing how different things stick in your memory. And the amount of pressure our society puts on mother's to do things "perfectly" along with the guilt mother's feel due to that unrealistic pressure. (OP's mom is an asshole though)
Hahah, yeah, Holly Hobbie was just viscerally unpleasant to me. I think my mom's aesthetic was just the absolute opposite of mine. She liked that country patchwork thing so much, and I liked cooler, more modern stuff and bright colors. As we moved into the neon parts of the 80s, I was much relieved by my wardrobe options. My mom had made my own clothes when I was littler, and though I appreciate that now on a skill level, they just weren't my taste. But she wasn't mean about it, she mostly let me do my own thing (pants 100% of the time! skirts never! or almost never). 

I do hope this was just a blip in OPs life both with her mom bullying her to get what she wanted, AND misremembering it in a way that made her look less like a bully . . . AND refusing to let it go in front of the boyfriend, because all three together does sound like someone who can run roughshod over their kid's feelings and have little problem justifying it in their own minds. I'm glad OP set the record straight; hopefully the mom realizes that's a hard boundary now and lets go of that hurtful 'joke.'
Proud of you!
Ok, now we're going too far and adding context to the story...
Not that this makes it any better, but I would bet that that's how she has told it to herself for so long that it's now her memory of it. People do this all the time.  What seals it for me is OP saying that her brother reported their mother looking at pics of that Halloween.  It seems like it's some kind of positive memory for their mother, and that's part of why she's so hurt.  For her it was some funny, treasured memory, and it seems clear that OP never detailed how she felt about it before.

OP is NTA, of course.  I wouldn't hold my breath, but if her mother is worth anything, then she'll get ahold of her emotions and apologize to OP.
Ugh, my narc mother did this kind of shit to me too. I begged to be in choir - nope, that wasn't a useful elective, I had to take another science course instead. I hated math and she *swore* I wouldn't have to take it my senior year because I would have gotten the credits I needed to graduate, then changed her mind and forced me into AP calculus 2 even though I sobbed and BEGGED her not to make me.

Spanish was far more useful, considering that I live in Texas, but she heavily pressured me to take German because she did. The only reason I was allowed to take art at all was because we had to have an elective and that one was at least one that she could brag about. 🙄

And poor OP. Her mother could have taken the cooking incident as a chance to, you know, teach her to cook and educate her on why cooking alone was dangerously, but just publically humiliated and punished her instead. It's so sad.
My mum wouldn't let me take music as an elective because "you have to be good at singing and like music" even though all I did since I could talk was sing and make up my own (admittedly awful) songs. 
For years I thought I must be terrible at singing and never did it around anyone. Until well into adulthood when friends persuaded me to sing a little and I found out there is nothing wrong with my singing 😞 in fact I can do some things considered very difficult to others due to some genetic fluke re: vocal chords. 

My mum had just decided on the narrative that she could be the only person good at singing in the house, because people always complimented her singing. 
She also did this with the gifted program  (it is on weekends in our country) and didn't bring me or even tell me "in case I got arrogant" but would routinely brag about getting into MENSA when she herself was a teen.
Eh, I don't think it's that strange at all. 

The brain doesn't fully finish developing until your mid 20s, so a brain lapse of "I thought it was a good idea at the time" seems a little more plausible than it does for a 45 year old who has had 20 extra years of life experience and could reasonably be expected to have a better understanding of how people behave doing the same thing. Most people in their 20s are still figuring out who they are as a person and that self image doesn't really settle until late 20s to early 30s. I'm not saying it'd be ok for someone to be shitty to their kid if they're in their 20s, I'm just saying, looking at brain development, it doesn't seem strange that a young 20-something might be more likely to make a stupid decision *because* their brain is literally not done developing. By 45, the brain is fully developed and it's their personality that sucks.

And also, parenting a young kid at 45, your peer group is more likely to have more mothers who've already been through parenting a young child and have been able to see how their early childhood parenting choices have affected later childhood development. Meanwhile at 20-something..... Chances are both you and your peer group are all becoming first time parents around the same time, give or take a couple years. There's no official manual for parenthood, a lot of it is figuring it out as you go and taking the advice of others around you. Most people just... do their best and hope for the best, and it puts you at a disadvantage. At 20-something, your pool of people who have already done this is previous generations. At 45, unless you've strictly only been friends with people who are childfree, many of your friends will have already had kids and it gives the advantage of hearing more modern takes on parenting.
It's so weirdly comforting to know so many others have heard this from their loved ones. 
wrong parts for that, i’m afraid. yet oddly flattered by the question.
Ugh can you be my parent? My mother should  take lessons from you 🤣

But seriously you sound awesome keep being you!
It’s lovely that you are so receptive to hearing those types of things from your children. Not all parents are, mine included. Thank you for doing your part in breaking the wheel of generational trauma.
I really agree with your last point and I’m glad you have this approach with your kid. If my mom at minimum validated all the times she did shitty things just because I was small and she was big and in power, it would heal a lot of hurt. Your kid is lucky to have you.
It’s really hard. I’ve had a lot of instances like OP, where my mom re writes history, specifically about something terrible she did to me, and when I try to tell her what really happened she just gaslights me within an inch of my life. I wish she would be more open to it and had a similar perspective to yours.
My mother tried this approach and told us, she's in therapy and part of that is that we should tell her what she did wrong and where we still have left-over hurt or grudges.

We told her, and then she didn't want to continue playing that game.
This - good parenting. I too have had this talk with my adult kids. A bit painful but so important. Luckily we have an open honest relationship and they don’t feel too traumatized but certainly there are many many days I was less than a great mom. 

Don’t let them pretend, be honest how it was, that was truly a terrible thing your mom did. It’s unfortunate she wasn’t being honest with herself and had a different memory. Perception matters, facts matter. I hope she looks at this as it was for you and maybe even opens up a real conversation.
My mother acts like because she had to move one "for he rown mental health", that just makes everything disappear.
My mom said to me “you’re a cheap whore except you do it for free” when I was a virgin and an adult. She said so much my dad started calling me a whore too.

It has been 30+ years and I told my dad what he said to me. He didn’t remember it at all, but I got an apology and him saying he deserved to have been smacked in the head for calling me a whore. 

That apology from my dad has helped me forgive him and have a father-daughter relationship. I refused to get married or have children because of the way I was treated though, and he knows that he and my mom will never have grandchildren. I don’t even date. 

OP is NTA, mom needed to hear the truth. If you let mom slide, she would probably continue with her version of a “cute” Halloween story again and again.
My mom likes to deny a lot of stuff from the past. I call her out on it, and she usually gets quiet or ends the call not too long after. It bothers me sometimes, but I live across the country so I have the freedom to nope out of the bullshit
The single greatest barrier to my mother and I having an adult relationship is her denial of wrongdoing every single time something like that comes up and I want to talk about it. She tells me I'm blowing something out of proportion or misremembering every time. We're not speaking at all at this point, your child is truly blessed to have you.
I try to do this with my kids as well.  I tell them that while they shouldn't be hurting my feelings on purpose, if my feelings get hurt because they need to tell me something important about how they feel, that's OK.
Man, this is a lot but-in-a-good-way, fresh off the back of one of Those conversations with my own mum. Thank you for this, it's only been about an hour since my dad walked in the room and got arsey with me for 'making them feel like shit' and can't I just move on, so seeing this has been super reaffirming at just the right time. 
I wish my parents thought like this. They were uneducated and have a lot of mental issues and only two of five kids are moderately successful, of course they could have done better! It sucks that it hurts to hear for them but it ruined my life in so many ways so they can deal with some uncomfortable feelings about it.
"denile is addictive drug" damn yo 

spot on
I told a therapist that my parents have never apologized to me about anything, no matter what or how wrong they were. And her first response was to say “wow, so you never had a chance to heal those decisions or memories? That can be hard.” And it was true, if they, on even the shittiest circumstances, had just said I’m sorry or I was wrong, once, it would’ve made forgiveness so unbelievably easy to do for me. It would have cut some of the hurt out of it immediately and they never once given me that.
It truly does do something to have a genuine apology for something a parent did when you were a kid. It doesn’t heal anything but it definitely soothes it
My mom told me that my hurt feelings weren’t worth losing a mother over and to get over it.  We haven’t spoken since 2011.  🫶🏼
It's hard, we've all been through a lot in the past generations, and have had to reshape ourselves to fit the world over and over and healing intergerational trauma requires a lot of tolerance and empathy.  NTA but I do feel for moms as a daughter who has passed through similar loops and a mom trying to remove them from the way for my daughter. As an example, since my grandad was a feminist, my mom didn't receive a bikini until her boobs were big enough because my grandfather rightfully taught that if young boys didn't have to cover themselves neither did young girls. This caused my mom a lot of shame and trauma that she passed down by insisting we girls always had a bikini on because it was our right. This worked for my sister who liked it, didn't work for me who hated being a girl because of what was forced on me and didn't work for my brother who wanted to have the right to use one also (coincidentally he was obsessed with snow white too even though he never cleaned shit). Kids are all different. With my daughter I have talked extensibly about the issue, explained the history behind the adult feelings behind such a simple object and insisted in buying her one just so she can have it in her backpack when she goes to the beach with school and let her decide what to do. Year after year she has decided she doesn't need to wear it even if all her female friends do (I wasn't nearly as brave and confident) but knows she has my approval no matter what.  She insists she likes to cut her hair short like mine and that she doesn't like princesses. But I feel like I'm constantly asking her if she's being real or just trying to not disappoint me because my biggest fear is to force myself on her. She has told at the age of 8 that me always being worried about that makes her feel like I don't believe her.  Sometimes it feels like non traditional women are not allowed to be an example for their daughters, something my mil said right to my face when I had my baby. She said that I wasn't a good model as a mother and she should serve as an example for her instead. The first few years of my daughter's life I was conflicted between all the times my mil tried to instill traditional Judeo-Christian femininity (and catholicism along with it) in my daughter despite my honest talks with her as to how insecure and personally attacked I felt as a fourth generation secularist, and my attempts to make my daughter feel she got to choose and have a word in all matters.  After I cut contact with my in-laws my daughter's anxiety has dropped significantly but my trauma from that experience remains. It's definitely not easy knowing when our kids are choosing for themselves, for us or for others around them and it can be quite messy navigating that. That, to me, is the biggest trauma the patriarchy as left us, it turned us against each other. But I hope it's turning. My mom is in therapy, we have cried together and she apologized for everything that she did wrong and it helped me heal but me telling her that I get were it all came from and forgiving her was essential for her to heal too.  Some things she erased from memory like all the times she told us she was going to commit suicide to escape from everything like her own mother did before. I try not to unload everything on her at once but space out information that she's able to process. Forgive the trauma dump in here.
What I do feel helps with my daughter are the lengthy and honest one hour conversations we have every night since she was 2 where we truly bond as equals and are able to talk through everything while cuddling. Exploring encyclopedias is also a great way to go through the past and to acknowledge how we got here and slowly introducing some kid appropriate philosophy. Of course this works with my kid, not every kid.
I wish my mom was this way, anytime I even lightly criticize something she’s done in the past that hurt me she starts crying and calls herself a horrible mother and I end up being the one having to apologize.
Can confirm. I'm literally zero contact with my own mother because she's a narcissistic pathological liar (unfortunately also with Munchausen's and By Proxy) and is incapable of taking any kind of feedback or criticism without it being a "personal attack" wherein she is the victim, as always, and everyone hates her. 
She was also disgustingly transphobic and I wasn't having that bs in my house. 
Point is, some of our parents really shouldn't have been parents, did so for entirely selfish reason or would never have been fit to raise a child to begin with. 

My partner has a mother who was like mine, the difference is that when confronted with losing contact with her child, she took a step back and took it upon herself to learn and grow and better herself, before coming back to her son with sincere apologies and very clearly changed and evolved behaviour. Not everyone is so lucky to have parents that can and are willing to grow. 

Hopefully OP's mother is open to honest communication and growth.
I ugly cried after reading your comment because I just tried to have this kind of conversation with my mother yesterday, and all she would do is turn it back around on me about all the times I hurt her, deny any memory of ever doing the things I said she did/said that hurt me, and suggesting I was too sensitive and not remembering things right. She said she apologized if my feelings were hurt but what did I expect from her now, and also threw it in my face that we have already talked about it over and over and over and over and over and why can't we just move on already? Then she brought up all the times and ways I hurt her even though she sacrificed so much for me and clearly I'm ungrateful. I always have to be the one that moves on and is wrong, never her. Why couldn't I have a mom like you? 😭
You're such a good parent your GPS calls YOU for guidance
Can you also be my mom?

God, I wish my mom would take responsibility for the hurtful things she said and did when I was a child/young adult. Worst one that I still think about was, when I was ~19, I spent a weekend at my boyfriend's apartment; when I got home, she asked me how my "weekend of sex and debauchery" went. Years later, I brought it up to express how hurtful that comment was, and her response was that, as a mother, that was what she thought she was supposed to say.

She also has *a lot* of her own unresolved trauma with her own mother and her late husband, but she refuses therapy, so..

Keep on being an awesome parent. ❤️
Yass! Some parents are so oblivious to their kids pain!
Ainsley is 13 now. glad it's not OP because it going viral would've made it worse
When my kid was the 10th doctor for Halloween, I was Rose and my partner was the tardis 🤣
You could be Weird Barbie
She could go as Skipper!
The RV might be the preferred option
hum - sausage ?
Every time, people mustard with this....
Meyer good
Promise 🥹🫶 We’re fulfilling our childhood dreams!
It's actually something I would have done when I was younger and had time on my hands to do some real writing.
Your mom openly says aloud that tik tok ruined you? I know I posted on another one of your comments, but that is INSANE. 

A parent should never ever talk like that about their children. 

You are wildly downplaying your childhood if you think you "didnt have that bad of a childhood." All of these examples you are giving are WILD. 

One of the most important parts of being a parent is recognizing that your children are not you or an extension of you. It sounds like your mom has been failing you at a fundamental level as a parent for a long, long time.
Or you escaped from her clutches for the first time in your life and finally lived the way you always wanted to.
I think my Mum was disappointed I wasn't a tomboy but the only way it felt forced was having my hair kept short. I remember crying all the way to and from the hairdresser every time.

In my 20s I brought up how upsetting it was but to her it had been a practicality, our cousins and uncle lived with us and my Mum had no influence on cutting my cousin's long hair and she "didn't want to deal with having two long haired girls".  She didn't remember saying that later and her memory is so bad now we'll never get to the bottom of it.

She was always disappointed I wasn't climbing trees , roller skating and riding a bike but never tried to teach me either of those things
Your Mom has major issues. I'm speaking as a Mom of grown kids (who are all amazing in their own way), who was also shamed by my own Mom. I was just not what she wanted. I'm still not, but Im finally starting to live life on my own terms.
My mom practically threw me into the tomboy role. I loved “boy” things but loved “girly” things just as much. I wasn’t allowed to wear girl undies, I HAD to buy boy undies because “PIZZASAUCE is a tomboy!!!!!!” My first bra HAD to be a sports bra because TOMBOY!!!! Couldn’t have certain clothes because TOMBOY!!!! (Yet she would force me to wear the ugliest girl clothes when I was encouraged to wear girl clothes???) Couldn’t explore makeup cuz TOMBOY!!! Couldn’t play girly instrument, had to pick a masculine one. Couldn’t do girl sports, couldn’t partake in pageants like my friends (except the one time she let me, I was put in a dumb ass little kid style dress with no hairstyle and zero makeup so looked like a five year old instead of a 10 year old, I didn’t even want a ton but would having painted nails and a pretty braid have killed her?!?!) was basically Icebox from Little Giants who loved football but wanted to try being a cheerleader for once…

Then when I became an adult, she ridicules me at times because I can’t do my hair pretty or have flawless skin or makeup looks, etc. I told her she didn’t allow me to even think about girl things.

ETA: she also pulled this shiitake at my wedding. A mutual family friend offered to do my makeup. I have never felt more beautiful and glamours as I did that day! Even the woman’s mom said I could have been a model because I looked so stunning. My mom shows up to drive us to the venue and starts pouting and even sat in her car for a bit. Turns out she thought the friend would do a an okayish job, she wasn’t wanting me to have that glam of a look because I AM A TOMBOY REMEMBER!!!!!! She then messed up by bringing me the wrong socks, my shoes were slightly too big so I asked her to pick up some white or silver socks. She only brought a pair of neon rainbow knee highs… It looked awful but luckily the dress covered them. Then as she was walking with me, she yanked the dress hem up high enough so all the pics of me walking down the aisle show those socks…
Funny story: I was totally this mom. I flat out refused to push gender norms on my kid. Her room was decorated in pretty greens, she wore neutral clothing, had both “boy” and “girl” toys. NO ONE was gonna push their story on MY child! Lololol. Imagine my horror when, at just shy of 2 years old, I let her pick out her own outfit for the first time and her eye locked from across the store onto a pink leopard print track suit. And I don’t believe she has worn a single thing without either pink, sparkles, or tutus since. As long as she’s weather appropriate, she can wear what she wants. I care more about her having the freedom to be herself than I do about my opinions.
The sadest part for me is I think a lot of the "Not like other girls" moms had a mom like yours, and told themselves they would be be different! they would fill their daughter's life with all the alternative/tomboyish things they wanted but weren't allowed to have!  

..... And somehow never realize they're doing the exact same thing to their kid that their mom did to them.
This makes me so sad. I’m sorry this is how you grew up. My mom was always so excited to help me discover and indulge in my own interests/tastes. Whatever they were, she’d hype me up. I was so lucky.
May all your duvets be pillowy soft for all eternity
I hope your current comforter feels like a goddamn cloud ☁️
My dad was at work a lot when I was a kid and had to fight for christmas and our birthdays off, Halloween was not something he'd be around for. My boyfriend told my mom that I was not the kind of girl who'd have ever liked something like that, and later on called me Snow White all night and promised he'd love me and I'd be beautiful no matter what ugly rags the wicked queen put me in.
Yes and it's even worse bc OP said she and her dad showed up early so she could sign up to do the Snow White princess dance. There's no way her mother didn't know how important this was to OP based on this fact alone.
I wish my mom had been more like that. My dad wasn't exactly a princess fan either, but he still spent his days off watching movies with me and reading fairytales and having tea parties and my mom, who was the more involved parent, never wanted to do any of that because it wasn't her thing.
Yeah all is fine and dandy if someone doesn't prefer "girly" things but it's weird if, like ops mom, that mindset is twisted into a us VS them thing.
My mom is the same as you, she is definitely a bookworm and I took after her completely in that sense. She has 4 daughters (me included) and we are all drastically different. She has always encouraged each of us to be ourselves. 

My oldest sister was a sporty girl to the max, she is now a mom of 3 boys and absolutely loves it

My bookworm self who is also an autopsy technician, as well as an avid animal lover 

My teacher sister who loves kids, loves hair and anything on the lifetime network

And last but not least; the youngest, the anthropologist who does taxidermy and travels the world with the fiercest makeup i have ever seen


You’re doing good mamas. You’re raising an amazing independent girl who is gonna respect all types of women from all different walks of life. 

Also honorable mention to my brother; poor kid has 4 sisters
Wow -- hope you advise your daughter to learn sewing now or later -- in sewing ​you need math skills, solve word problems, strategize, and combine engineering and art --- and get to express your personality, amaze people - save money.
I've always loved Snow White because I'm an animal lover and I thought her relationship with the natural world was beautiful. Same for St. Francis. Also, it's a big jump between Snow White and a hot dog.
Yeah, he grew up in a super patriarchal society, he’s not gonna change overnight. Really, he made a lot of progress in a short time!
She decided we had too many pets (4 cats). (TW: animal cruelty, death)



She fed 3 of them rat poison and when that didn’t work over the weekend, drove them out to the woods on the far side of town at night and dumped them (declawed, indoor cats). One of them came back to the car, I begged her to let him come home, she told me to put him out of the car and she drove away with a bump under the passenger side tire and a “don’t look back”.
My mom also has revised a lot of history in her mind. Some of the worst things she did, she now says never happened, or that I'm remembering them wrong. It's wild. She doesn't have dementia, her mind is pretty clear for her age. She's taken a lifetime of guilt and turned it into some fantasy where she was the perfect mother.
She also probably started out with "Urgh, I can't believe she wants to be a frigging princess for Halloween. All the girls in her grade are going as princesses, it would be so much more fun if she went as something more unique" > "Urgh, and I bet if I did get her a unique costume, she would pout and whine it isn't a princess for 5 minutes, and then realize how much better it is" > "That's it, I'm getting her another costume, she'll thank me when she's older".
I remember asking my mum why she hates me and she said in the most exasperated tone ever, "I don't hate you Emily. I love you because you're my daughter. I just don't don't like you very much."   
   
After that, the "I love you but I don't like you." line became a fairly regular thing. I know I wasn't the perfect daughter and I understand why she struggled with me so much at times, but I wasn't a bad kid. I occasionally messed up sure, but it was never intentional. I wanted to be likeable. I wanted my mum to *like* me.     
    
I'm 36 now and eighteen months ago we went NC for the first time. Since then she hasn't reached out once to try and repair things, not even a text on my birthday or xmas.   
    
And on the one hand that's totally fine, I don't want a relationship with the person she is today. But on the other hand, it stings to know that after all these years, my mum still just doesn't like me very much. 😞
Wow didn't realize that statement was so common. 😑☹️


Ditto 
I'm sorry
Yep.... I got,

 'you're my kid and I'm supposed to love you but I don't like you' 

Not that I needed her to say it, it was palpable in everything from punishments to Christmas because I have younger siblings who she does like.
Yes. She would shun my brother and I when we were kids and then as adults she would tell the stories of shunning us like they were jokes.

I haven't missed her in my life yet. It's been two weeks.
My mum has never said she doesn't like me, but I know she doesn't know anything about me. Not my favourite author or colour. Nothing. All of my interests as a child were treated as though they were something silly or something I would grow out of. She did, however, lose her temper frequently and yank my hair or whatever when she brushed it.

Welp, I still watch Buffy, and when you walk into my home you'll see my Lego on display. If you walk into my mum's home it looks like a home a woman has decorated in a manner she thinks a woman should decorate a house.
Threaten not to talk to me? Don’t threaten me with a good time!
This makes a lot of sense. Also growing up I was placed In the situation where I (a girl) had to protect my mom from my dad and I think it created a weird dependence (I knew dad would never hit me so I would stand between them). But it didn't make her like me..it make her resent me because she would then spend the next day screaming at my brother and I for what terrible kids we were. Some people should not have been parents.
It almost makes it worse.  Misremembering is one thing.  But if she lied for so long and so many times to so many people to rewire her own memory, how many people did she tell this humiliating story of her weird hotdog girl to?!

Fuck mom.
I think I would have suddenly developed a case of dyscalculia and flunked out the course no matter what she wanted. Could always just get a GED.
Similar negative reinforcment often leads to people who can't cook. It sticks with you.
Omg, did our mothers converse/conspire together???
One snarky comment from my mom about my singing to myself while playing made me stop singing entirely for at least 5 years
Nah, sometimes the older parents are the more rigid, because they've had  longer to build a fantasy about what "their child" will be like. 

I would bet OP's Mom spent 30-40 years telling herself "When *I* have a daughter, *I'm* not gonna force her to be a cookie cutter girly girl. I'll encourage her to be as quirky and unique as she\* wants", and then doubled down instead of correcting course when her fantasies met reality.



  
\*The idea that your child will have different likes, dislikes and opinions than you is weirdly difficult for some people to grasp.
I’m sorry about your mom. I had a looot of therapy to help with my own ‘mom’ issues. Having someone validate the feeling you had as a child is so good for your heart.
Heck, I'm over here taking notes. This is good stuff. They should write a book!
I want you to be my mom too.
Seriously,  I hadn't even realized this is why I find conversations with certain family members so frustrating.
That trauma is for real. I feel bad for how broken my parents are, but managing that relationship is the most work I do in my personal life. Exhausting.
I didn't quite realise that parents being willing to listen how they hurt their children is also a part in breaking the wheel of generational trauma.

As part of a program to help people with suicide thoughts/plans I told on tv that I was glad I was still alive and had no suicidal intentions anymore even though I sufferd sexual abuse as a child. My mother said she couldn't remember any if it. She claims she told family I didn't lie, but still she couldn't confirm it. She told me she will ask my (dead) father when she is gone and will tell me in a next life. Recently I became so mad with her i don't want to see her anymore. Not in this or the next two lives. I texted my sister I want to know when she us dead, but I won't be coming to the funeral. My sister texted back upset that I left her to do it all on her own. And if I surely would refuse the inheritage also. So I didn't respond anymore. I have chronic fatigue (LC) have no energy for such people. Have much better talks with strangers on the internet. Rant over.
And you’re lucky to know your mom was shitty to you. Too many people live their lives stuck in that childhood fear and shame of disappointing their parents. You KNOW she was heinously wrong to treat your childhood self that way. Hold that knowledge firm and remember that when those feeling crop up in your day to day life.

Parents are so blind to what that abuse does to their children in their adult lives. I used to struggle so hard with any type of authority figures disapproval.

I started keeping a feelings journal and that how a realized that my work anxiety tied directly to how I was treated in the home as a child. Our history forms us.
[deleted]
Wow, she basically reopened and salted a wound just for funsies.
Abusers are so eager to forgive themselves.
Don't deny yourself happiness to punish your parents. If you don't want to date that's one thing, and it's your choice of course, but love can bring so much happiness and if the only reason is because of someone else's opinion, I genuinely believe you should do some soul searching. Denying yourself something good to spite them is still letting them control your life.
That might be her decision with her mother. She learned the hard way, she couldn't decide that for you. Proud of you for staying out touch / keeping tourself protected.
Unfortunately that's a horrible tactic abusive people use so they never have to sit in the uncomfortable feelings of being responsible for their own actions that hurt others. Classic DARVO, please Google the term if you don't know it.

You don't get to decide you didn't hurt someone, despite them telling you, you actually in fact, did hurt them.

I don't know anything about you, but maybe you might want to look into r/raisedbynarcissists or r/CPTSD and see if any of that rings any bells for you.

Either way, I hope you reach a point where you can state your truth without being manipulated into comforting the one who actually hurt you.

THEY should be comforting YOU, not the other way around. Anything else is just more abuse.
Lol the way I would have said your also the 10th doc but the human version
I wish you'd been my mom
I, for one, would love to go as Weird Barbie but am not nearly flexible enough…
Lmfao
Late to the party, but not *too* late to ketchup with this thread
She does. She also says cheerleading ruined me, and that my "clique" aka my friends from highschool ruined me.
....sounds like you know you should be no contact.
Damn this is really setting me off rn lol I’m so sorry and I’m so pissed at your mom and these types of parents in general, but for the sake of inner peace I know it’s better to just let go and focus on oneself and the goodness there, but oof rn I’m just  grrr, sorry for what you went through.
OMG I'm so sorry 😞  was your photographer able to photoshop the socks out or something?
You can't be prettier than her even on your wedding day.
It sounds like she felt threatened/scared by your sense of femininity. 
I'm curious what makes an instrument gendered? 
Also your mom sucks.
You’re exactly right. My grandmother dressed my mom in whatever was around, easy and admittedly very ugly even for the 70’s. She took my mom and aunt to a men’s barber as kids because she was taking my uncle there anyway. It messed my mom up because she was always very feminine and just so and she felt ugly a lot. Which I can completely understand and even relate to but when I would tell her that’s how I felt she would tell me that’s impossible because she only buys me the prettiest clothes so I’m never ugly. She could never look outside herself and her way of thinking to see it from my side. With anything not just clothes.
 Her generation has a big issue with seeing children as their own human beings and not extensions of themselves, if we’re different than them it’s an insult and it makes them look bad. Especially when it comes to mothers and daughters, my dad was never like that with my brother he knew his son had different interests but he didn’t care and supported it. I shared more of my dads interests and style and we were a duo mostly and I think that contributed to my mom trying to force me into the princess box because her husband was ‘boying up’ their only daughter and her only chance at what she envisioned. Whereas my dad just wanted all of us to do what we liked and be happy regardless of gender or what they liked.
He did such an amazing job of supporting you!
+1 to you for choosing a prince.
That's some serious green flag behavior right there! What a lovely bf 🤗
Your boyfriend's reaction is really moving 🥹
Holy shit. Keep him you got a good one.
> and later on called me Snow White all night and promised he'd love me and I'd be beautiful no matter what ugly rags the wicked queen put me in

Although I'm a straight male north of 40, I need to say: if you two ever break up, please give him my number!  He genuinely sounds like a wonderful human being :D
Aww green flag BF! Proving that he knows you better than she ever did, and that her false narrative can be just hers to cry over. NTA, your mother is free to shed tears for her imaginary compliant daughter, but that could never be you.
This is a very typical reddit answer but it sounds like she has a lot of internalized misogyny to deal with
They started learning it at school in 6th grade, now I give her free access to my sewing machine (I'm planning to buy a new one for myself, so she can practice on this "old") and she's got from me her own fabrics stock. She likes to do it, is very creative, so I think she could be a good designer of her own clothes, maybe even not only her own. But she's so creative and talented in many things, that it's difficult to say if her future would be connected with fashion or something other.   
Now she's making her own Halloween costume... ekhm... a few, because she still can't decide, which one she wants wearing ;).
Well that is straight up psychotic…
Oh my god, she took you WITH her?!
I’m so sorry you had to witness that. My mom killed so many of our pets, either intentionally or through neglect. It sticks with you :/
When she’s old and senile you need to dump her in the middle of coyote country.
This is my mother, but she doesn't have any guilt. She actually believes that she was a wonderful mother.
That is very sad!  I'd try to take some peace that your mom doesn't like herself the most, and what she doesn't like about you are the things she relates back to herself.  It's a great irony and travesty that she can't put that together herself, but some people are just so high on their own supply with a tank so deep in their psyche that they don't know how to see themselves whatsoever.  She might especially dislike you being happy with traits she gave you that she despises in herself, and so forth.  I'd start interpreting all of that noise as self-hatred projected onto you, and leave any shame she is causing to remain in her delusional fantasies.
I don’t know if this is true for you, but for me I cringe when I hear her voice in my head. When I read “exasperated tone” it took me back for a moment, she had this tone. I would ask my mom if she loved me. I gave up on her liking me because it was clear she favored my brother and other little girls. I wanted to feel that she did love me. I hope it stings less with time and you have a community of people that see all the wonderful things about you.
Yep. "I love you, but I don't like you" was the mantra of my childhood. (that, and "Who do you think you are?")

Now she's nearing the end of her life and constantly telling me she loves me, hoping I'll respond in kind. Sometimes I can lie and say I do. Most times not.
My mother said it a lot as well.
Mine as well. She later claimed she didn’t remember but I never forgot.
Yeah, same. Knowing this is so not-rare kind of helps me.
My mother said it to me one time and I never forgot it. It changed my entire self-perception in a moment.

I'm still upset, too, because therapy in the US is expensive!
Thank you. I am much happier now being NC and it’s amazing how much that has improved every aspect of my life.
It’s been two years and I feel better about myself in ways I never thought I would. I’m no longer filled with anxiety that I’m not doing enough, being enough etc. My brother, her flying monkey, says they understand I like my privacy? When I had Covid, they never checked to see if I was okay.
to this day my mom's ex believes he had to go to the hospital because he was so constipated he couldn't walk.  i think he told that story so many times that he blocked out the ambulance ride and the fact he had a bathroom cleaner brush stuck up his ass.  because he had been constipated.  so much that he figured if he used something stick like, he could break up the poop.  well that scrub brush was on a long handle with a hook for hanging it, on the end.  guess which part got stuck and ripped part of his ass?  

  
so he had a temp ass set in his side while it healed.  you ask me or my mom, we remember all of that.  but he called us crazy, that we imagined all of it, that he just strained so hard to shit he broke something.
My dad’s family are like this. They’ve basically completely rewritten his whole life story since he died to make themselves feel better.

From the way they talk about him you’d think that he’d died at 18 years old, living at home and still close with his family, and as though his whole life was a great tragedy. In reality he was married with a kid, had a successful and fulfilling career, and an extremely tense relationship with them. They’ve tried their hardest to pretend my mum and I never existed. 

The way they talk about him publicly makes me so angry, because I know it’s not how he would have wanted to be remembered.
Oh there was no way I could have at that age... I was absolutely and completely terrified of her. School was the biggest thing she regularly blew up over, because I wasn't a model student and valedictorian like she was. Never mind that her graduating class was literally like 30 people n a tiny Podunk town, and mine was about 425 or so in one of the biggest cities in the country. Or the fact that I had undiagnosed and untreated ADHD. 🤦‍♀️
Sometimes I wondered if those supposed PTA meetings were actually PITA lessons about how to drive your children mad. 😅 Ugh, I'm so sorry you can relate though, it's so unfair for anyone to get saddled with a terrible parent like that .
Yep therapy has been a lifeline for me, and is the reason I have a decent relationship with my mom as an adult!!! Therapy: ya can’t afford NOT to!
Me three please.
That’s true! Too many people grow up to turn around and unload the same trauma on their own children when they have them, because they never realized how bad it was or took the time to learn why they shouldn’t.
You seem so wise can you write a book? Or recommend one lol
Did you have any specific guidance on starting the feelings journal? I’m curious if it could help map out where anxiety stems from and/or how far it can reach into other aspects of everyday life.
I hear what you’re saying. I have dated but I’m content being alone. It may be just damage that makes it very difficult for me to date. I have rewire my way of thinking, it’s a slow process. I’d like to be happy with a wonderful man but I just don’t see it, if you know what I mean?  I appreciate you saying to not deny happiness. Thank you.
Nah, he was a terrific tardis! (And would not have been willing to shave his beard!)
It gets better-- I'm his dad actually.
Franks-ly, I love threads like this
Your mum sucks dude.
Oh wow. Yeah. That's really awful.
Ok, now I'm so glad you made her cry and forced her to face head on the reality behind her delusions
Honestly, this is so sad and hopefully at your college you can get good low-cost counseling to help your adjustment to adulthood and independence while you decide how to navigate boundaries w your mom. 

I was a tomboy and weirdo, and I disapprove of a lot of Disney gender crap. But if my kid wants to wear the frilliest, fluffiest, pinkest princess dress? Have at it!! I got to have my own childhood, she can have hers.

She does know that a boy (or anyone) can’t just go into a bedroom or kiss someone without asking first! Thanks Disney and western lore for those fun discussions. If I want her to grow up yo be an independent badass, and express herself with confidence, then I have to let her dress in ruffles too.
It's pretty unacceptable to say your child was "ruined" at all.
I am limited contact with boundaries in place.
It feels good now to embrace feminine things that I was pressured to hate or ignore growing up. I also have a lot of behavior I can look back on and am mortified that I acted that way. My first instinct used to be to judge anything feminine and judge women and girls. Now my first instinct is to compliment and find something good. 

Also, just because I don’t care for a trend or fashion, doesn’t give me the right to openly criticize it and I should look for something I can appreciate. Like I don’t do fake nails but I can appreciate the talent that goes in to painting designs on them. I may not like fancy dresses but I can appreciate the colors or the textures used. 

It’s nice to see beauty in things even if I don’t enjoy them myself.
It was a friend of mine doing the photos, she got a bunch of better shots of me later on
It wasn’t that, she just had this weird thing about me. She wanted me to value my brains over looks and books over friends and I should be proud to be weird and quirky and not like other girls. Like my struggle to fit in was to be worn as a badge of honor and pride. Like she didn’t want me to even think about being pretty or girly.
It was just super weird that my sisters were all allowed to embrace their femininity but for whatever reason, I wasn’t.
She didn’t want me playing “girly” ones like flute or clarinet. Brass and percussion were okay ones to play.
He's the best <3
He's pretty fantastic.
He's my knight in golden armor!
I love him a lot.
I got the best one. I almost feel like if I were a good person I'd share him, but I'm way too selfish for that. He's all mine!
He's gonna be alllll mine till the day I die.
That’s a great word for her.
Yup. Only child, single mother. 

I was too young to be left home alone, but not too young to witness (or be forced to participate in) that, apparently.
Thanks, I’m sorry for you too. It definitely sticks, I have always been fond of cats and as a child I felt more comfortable and safe with cats than with people because of my home life.
Omg, that was my mother too. Even when she was dying, though, she didn't apologize or try to make amends... She probably didn't believe she had to apologize for being honest and wildly favoring my sister (to the point that several times I overheard friends/neighbors gossiping about it). It sure made me a better mother, however.
My mother made me necklace with that mantra thinking it was cute inside joke.
Took me half a century to realize that it wasn’t me being an unloveable person, it was my mom’s personality disorder all along. And I wasn’t even the one to figure that out, it was my amazing (adult) child.

In case any of y’all haven’t heard this often enough, it wasn’t anything you did, said, or were that made your mom say that. You have always deserved love. Some moms just aren’t able/willing to give it.
was he trying to fish... nah, I can't even finish the question
noooooo! that's what the poop knife is for!
I just Freeformed it when I started. Having a cell phone helped in a lot of ways as I could pop off about my feelings really close to the moment and lock it so others couldn’t snoop. 
After I wrote things down I’d set them aside for around  6 weeks or more. Sometimes I never look back at it. Other ones, I look them over with a clear head and try to name the feeling I had and what aspect of myself that was coming from. 
I have a very hurt little kiddo running around in my head. Being able to identify a fear response that presents as anger or anxiety is super helpful. And then, I will sometimes write about why that situation wasn’t the same type of situation.
Yes, your boss can talk to you about a mistake. No, you don’t need to cry about it. You can! But, that’s probably not the result your boss was looking for.
Etc. it takes some free form practice, but the idea is to puke out the bad and then review it later to see what may help you learn about it.
I hope it's okay to barge in!

I just wanted to say, just take it as it comes and focus on yourself and your healing. Don't try and force anything and maybe someone just comes along one day and it clicks. Or of course, it could be that you keep being content by yourself.

Sometimes a friendship could also turn into something romantic. I am not a fan of the "typical dating" and actually prefer getting to know someone without expectations. I started off as friends with my boyfriend (although we got together quite fast) and that took a lot of pressure away.

All the best to you (and of course also OP) and take care!
It’s 100% ok to protect your peace. Keep good friendships, read good books and drink good tea.
PRICELESS.
I am doggedly following this thread
I don't know why your mother was so inconsistent and unfair with her parenting, but it's not right, and I'm sorry.
He truly sounds like it, you wonderful queen!! 👸🏻👑 So happy for you that you find a kind an be loving king!!

ETA: I Completely melted when I read that and I felt a little bit of my inner child heal just knowing someone like him exists. ☺️☺️ THAT is could fish is right there!!!!
I'm really happy for both of you !
wowww your mother is next level horrible for that! A whole ass necklace wtf?!
Thank you for this.  My most cherished desire in childhood was to have a little girl to love the way I wasn’t loved as a child.  It happened, and was everything wonderful I hoped for.
I feel this. After receiving so much treatment for my CPTSD and PTSD, my mom still wonders 'why I am still not doing anything' and 'still being the victim' while the truth of situation is that I am as autistic as a doorframe, inteligent and require external structure to guide my thinking. 

And my mom is unable to comprihend that she has probably autism as well, is also an inteligent and compassionate human being who received no structure, has been victim to all types of severe abuse and has severe PTSD, CPTSD and untreated neurodiverency going on. 

The result is gaslighting, avoidance, more gaslighting and denial.  Finding a kernal of emotional truth ANYWHERE in my mom's families system is like looking for grass in the desert. There is just no fertile ground for it. 

And you are right. It is not something that I did but it was something she was unable to supply and instead of getting her shit together, she deflected the responsibility of the situation on a child. 

Charming, I know.
I wish that were true for autistic kids too, but so often we are the exception.
Thank you for saying this. I’m a full grown adult whose parents were her first bullies, and I’ve *just* started to realize this. It helps to read it whenever possible because it’s still so hard to shift perspective after so many years of parental indoctrination about my own unloveability.
Thank you. Hearing that mad me cry and I read it aloud to my husband and then I cried again. My mother was awful.
That’s for breaking up the poop after it’s out, so it flushes easier. Not for sticking up your ass
The knife is for external use only.
Just sitting here on my buns, trying to grill people for ideas on how to participate.
I genuinely think he's Prince Charming reincarnated. He's always so kind and gentle with me, and on top of that he is gorgeous. Golden hair like in a fairytale, calloused hands, soft cheeks, and he swears he isn't tall but I disagree.
🫂 so happy to hear that you were able to break the cycle. It’s such a difficult thing to reconcile when our moms aren’t emotionally connected to us. Wishing you and your daughter every single happiness life has to offer.
That's beautiful.
It sounds like you are a remarkably compassionate and empathetic person. Your mom is lucky to have you in her life, it is a shame she is unable to realize that. I’m so sorry for what you must have been enduring.

This line really stuck a chord for me

>Finding a kernal of emotional truth ANYWHERE in my mom's families system is like looking for grass in the desert. There is just no fertile ground for it.

You have a way with words, this is so eloquently put.

And yeah, she sounds like a charmer :/
You absolutely need to hear this, too. This one is just for you, roadintodarkness. There is nothing intrinsically wrong or defective about you, and nothing that renders you unloveable. You have always deserved to feel loved and safe. I am genuinely so sorry that you have been made to feel exempt from that.
AITA for telling my neighbor to grow up, get a life, and get the fuck over the fact that I painted my house a color he doesn’t like?
I bought a house in a community without an HOA I wanted my home to be MY home, and that includes making it look the way that I want. I also chose a neighborhood that already has fun, colorful houses instead of just plain earth tones.

I finally got to the point where I could repaint my house. I picked a soft peachy color with sage, blue, and soft and dark pink accents. Fun and colorful without being too out there. I think if you google “coolors blue sage peach” you’ll see a similar palette.

My neighbor Paul fucking hates it and has been complaining since we started the project. He also made his opinion known that he hates our front lawn (lots of wildflowers and sunflowers, fun garden flags, a Little Free Library, etc). 

Each and every time, I’ve told him that I don’t care. Truly, I don’t. And I’ve suggested a few times that maybe he’d be happier in a HOA community that has control over everything and forces people into having earth toned homes. Paul got angry when I suggested that and said he’s lived in his home for 15 years and shouldn’t have to move. I told him okay, well you’ll have to learn to live with a little color.

Last weekend I was putting in pavers that my niece and I had painted together. They’re all things like ladybugs, turtles, birds, etc in fun colors. I adore them and my niece is so excited she gets to be a part of my home. Paul came over to complain yet again, saying it was all an "eyesore" and my niece was here, so I just told him “It’s time for you to grow up and get the fuck over what I’m doing with my house.”

He got even pissier and told me that I have no right to talk to him this way, do I know who I’m talking to, etc.

I told him to just go away and get a fucking life. If he has so much free time to bitch and moan about a colorful house, maybe he should get a hobby.

He stormed off, calling me a nasty piece of work. My niece was cracking up on the side. For the record, no one in my family is uptight, we really don’t care about cursing. I know some people still clutch their pearls over it around kids (she’s 15) but I’m sure she says worse. 

Anyway one of the other neighbors came to tell me that he’s been flapping his yap about how disrespectful I am to talk to him like that. She told me that she knows he’s a pain, but that he has been in the neighborhood forever and it’s worth being nice to him. I don’t know. Is telling him to get a life that big of a deal? AITA?
Welcome to /r/AmITheAsshole. Please view our [voting guide here](https://www.reddit.com/r/AmItheAsshole/wiki/faq#wiki_what.2019s_with_these_acronyms.3F_what_do_they_mean.3F), and remember to use **only one** judgement in your comment.

OP has offered the following explanation for why they think they might be the asshole:

 > I told my older neighbor to get a life and a hobby instead of whining about my house colors and style. This may have been too far because we're supposed to respect our elders. And he's got a right to his opinion.

Help keep the sub engaging!

#Don’t downvote assholes!

Do upvote interesting posts!

 [Click Here For Our Rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/AmItheAsshole/about/rules) and [Click Here For Our FAQ](https://www.reddit.com/r/AmItheAsshole/wiki/faq)

##Subreddit Announcements

Follow the link above to learn more

---

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose/?to=/r/AmItheAsshole) if you have any questions or concerns.*

*Contest mode is 1.5 hours long on this post.*
Next time he comes by with a complaint: “Hi Paul, I put some serious thought into your criticisms over my house. I think we could come to an agreement where if you start to pay my mortgage and my bills, then I will happily adjust the aesthetic of my home to your liking. We could start Aug 1? Does that work for you? Otherwise, as the person paying the bills here, I’m going to continue doing whatever I want with my property, and will ask you to not approach me or my property again for this matter.” 

Or a simple “Get F’d Paul”. Up to you. Either way, NTA.
NTA

He comes harassing you and you need to be nice?  Riddle me that one?  If the neighbor who is suggesting you be nice has ANY suggestions on how to keep this blowhard out of you face/property, that would be more helpful then "kids its both your fault" advice.  It may take two to fight, but he is the only one creating the situation.  You can't walk away, it's your house, so he is actively seeking conflict BUT is offended that he is called out.  You do you and you are NTA!
NTA, some people just don't understand when you try to be polite with them, so it is not your fault that you told them to f-off, it is their fault. I bet other people would just fall down on their knees and praise this neighbor and do whatever he wants, yeah right.

I always am very polite, but if other people do not understand or don't want to understand I become very rude, this saves me a lot of time in future because these people know what I will tell them and they don't even try to pull more crap on me as it just doesn't work.
NTA

If he starts up again, I recommend going the same route as a four year old.  Just keep asking him why.  You mentioned the neighborhood has some colorful houses already.  Why does yours bother him so much?  Why do these colors bother him in particular?  Why does he have the authority to police the neighborhood like this?  If he can’t internally process his emotions like an adult, make him miserable when he lashes out.
NTA. The house’s color scheme sounds gorgeous - something we’d have here in our Inman Park neighborhood. My guess is your neighbor is more upset about the kitchy items in your front yard than the color of your house. Maybe you need some pink flamingoes. 🥰
NTA.  Just because he's "Been in the neighborhood forever" doesn't give him any rights.  It's not a seniority system.  If he doesn't like he is cordially invited to pound salt up a hole.   Get a camera, because this ***IS*** the kind of cat that will vandalize your yard.
NTA. Your neighbor is deluded to think his opinion matters. It's your house, and your right to decorate as you choose. And isn't it great to not have some HOA dictating to you?

Tell him his unsolicited criticism is inspiring you to consider fluorescent orange and bright red for your next color scheme.
You explained nicely. Not once, not twice, but thrice, and probably more often. This time he was ruining your niece’s fun project. He deserved to be scolded. (Also, I giggled when I read your response.)

Edit: forgot my verdict. NTA, of course.
NTA

"If he has so much free time to b***h and moan about a colorful house, maybe he should get a hobby"

Exactly. 

His other choices are to live with your house colors or move. It sounds like he'd fit right into a HOA neighborhood.
NTA. I just hope you have cameras in case he decides to mess with your garden or something.
NTA


There was a reddit post where the OP painted it yellow and as soon as she went out of town, her neighbors contacted a company to paint it neutral. Huge drama happens after, police called, etc.


So maybe put up some cameras, haha.


He sounds like he is a grumpy old man and does need a life. 


If he was my neighbor, I'd "kill him with kindness" as my mamma used to say. It is better to have neighbors who look out for each other than scheme against each other.
to quote my dear, sweet 76yr old father "fuck em if they don't like it" NTA
NTA, tell your "neighbor" if he would like to have the right to dictate paint colors or landscaping choices he is happy to make you an offer on the house.  (at 3x market) so he can buy it and then it will be his property and he can do what he likes with it.

But since, it isn't his property, he can keep his opinions to himself, cause you don't care what he thinks.  Next time he steps foot on your property, inform he he is trespassing and not welcome, involve the police if necessary.
NTA

As long as your home and yard are well maintained and within code (ie not at risk of attracting vermin, a fire, or falling into his yard), your neighbor really doesn’t get a say in how you decorate. It’s too bad he decided to start off on such a sour note. But, you are right- his attitude is not your responsibility. 
Your neighbor has two choices.  He can move or he can live with it.

NTA
You know what? We all have different tastes. I'm not actually a huge fan of your color palate or gardening choices, either. 

But who TF cares what I think? 

This house is yours. You intentionally bought in a non-HOA neighborhood so you can express yourself through your home. Your neighbor is just OTT.

I get that people are like, "Oh, we should respect the old guy." But you didn't drop the f-bomb on him the first time he came over to complain. You dropped the f-bomb after a series of encounters that together I think add up to something like harassment. 

NTA.
NTA  I can picture your house, we have several in our town with similar color schemes; usually old Victorians with ornate wood work on them.  Really lovely.  Paul is only important in his own mind.
Nta I’d have said much worse! He can go get fucked. Miserable bastard.
For the love of all that is good and holy, neighbors. Ugh. I’ve got:

One set who neither mowed nor moved their waste wheelers off the curb for ten months straight, then threatened the mowing contractor the city hired;

One couple who verbally accosted me across the fence twice in two weeks over his paranoia about my security cam (that is perfectly legal and not pointed at him) and actually “threatened” to put in a privacy fence if we didn’t move the cam (please do, dude. Truly. We’d appreciate it);

And one guy with two mastiffs who replaced a privacy fence in two hours flat with no cement footings, didn’t sink the posts deep enough, didn’t take it the whole open span, and “closed” the gap by leaning a pallet against it. 

Idiots gonna idiot. NTA.
NTA - but I kinda want to know who he is, or who he thinks he is to be able to say 'Do you know who you are talking to?

Whenver anyone says that and I am around I always reply Oh my gosh, no I am not aware of your status, who are you? And then ask repeatedly who? No, I am sorry never heard of them. 

I think your house sounds lovely!
Well I guess Paul whined to one of the neighbors to go fight his non existent battles for him. 

  
NTA

You didn't answer the question tho.  Did you know who you were talking to?  (I love it when people say that).  His nephew is friends with a councilman.   Probably plays golf with a guy who is a neighbor of the ADA.   You better watch it or he'll complain again.
Paul can STFU. You are NTA.
I’m assuming you’re female or female presenting. I don’t believe he would do this to another man. 

If I’m right, don’t you dare listen to that neighbor. I’m not saying you should antagonize Paul, but you don’t need to shrink because big, bad Paul has lived in the neighborhood longer. 

Next time he comes over to give criticism, if he does, I recommend telling him his criticism is noted and to have a great day. 

NTA. Be safe.
NTA - He came on your property to complain about your property. He can suck it up and accept that his opinion has been heard, but it doesn't mean you have to do what he says. Respect is a two way street that he's treating like a single lane one way. 

I hope you and your niece add more fun things to your yard! I'm very eclectic myself and have a rather large collection of gnomes, fairy houses and lights to make my garden magical. :)
NTA

He is being a nosy busy-body for no reason. 

Have he acted like this for other stuff?
NTA.  Your neighbor is a nasty AH though.  Good for putting him in his place.  Laugh at any other neighbor that says you were disrespectful to him.  Ask them why living here for years makes it OK for him to be an AH nazi to you.  Then ignore them.  Make sure to get cameras and be quick to call the cops on him for trespassing and especially vandalizing your house and yard.  If he continues, you could also put up a sign or something with an FU finger on it that can only be seen from his yard or window.
NTA, if your neighbor wants to be nice to him while he’s rude as hell that’s her choice, she doesn’t get to force that choice on to you. We, as a whole fuckin society, need to stop forcing everyone to cater to the biggest asshole in the group for the sake of “keeping the peace”. If an asshole is gona asshole, we get to tell them.
NTA: Being nice to him only seemed to bring more complaints so I doubt that being nice to him is truely worth it.
Tell the interfering neighbor that you tried to be nice, but Paul is making it impossible to be civil to him.
*"Do you know who I am!?"*

"Oh no! \[Niece,\] call the police and tell them there's an elderly man who's wandered into the yard who doesn't know who he is."
I have hated every pink house I've ever seen. Even matte peach... it's the worst color you cant paint a house other than purple.

That being said, it's your house. The end.
NTA…”So, he can be disrespectful to me, complain to me constantly about my home and what I am doing with it, but I am not allowed to say my piece after continuous bitching to me?  Never once nice to me?  Nope. Sorry neighbor.  You may want to live that way, I do not.  The only way to keep the peace to him is to do what he wants and that will not happen.  I am good with that”.
NTA
But if you have to be "nice" to this guy, just smile and say "Ok" and go on about your life. Smiling is nice. Saying "Ok" also shows you've heard his point of view. Which is nice. (But it doesn't mean you are going to change anything about it)
>She told me that she knows he’s a pain, but that he has been in the neighborhood forever and it’s worth being nice to him.

Abso-fucking-lutely not. I don't care if he built the neighborhood. He has no business telling you what color to paint your house. 

NTA. Stand your ground.
NTA 

You bought a home without an HOA for a reason. As long as your house and garden are properly cared for (no broken down cars, over grown weeds,etc), which is probably not the case seeing as you seem very interested in how your home looks, they have no valid complaints and cannot report you to the city/town counsel/powers that be. 

I’m a little petty, so I if he continues this obnoxious behavior, I would return the attitude. Start complaining about how much of an eyesore his boring beige house is, how he lacks innovation and style, how his approach to landscaping is dated… but that’s just me lol
Does he come on your property to yell at you? Tell him you're calling the cops next time. The dude is unhinged and has no right to tell you what to do.
"said he’s lived in his home for 15 years and shouldn’t have to move"

you should have said you paid $500k (or however much you paid to buy the house) more than what he had paid for his house that you shouldn't have to listen to him.

"he has been in the neighborhood forever and it’s worth being nice to him"

50 yrs, I may give him some respect, but 15 yrs is not "forever", not even close.  but you should be nice to all your neighbors always, so next time, add "thank you" and "please": i.e. please GTFO, thank you.
Get cameras up in case he decides to damage your stuff or harass you.


He's a moaning old AH who needs to get over himself
NTA If it bothers him so much he can just not look at it. 

I recently earned my official membership in the r/nolawns by getting my first city complaint about my wildflowers. I just don't get why some people are so worried about what's going on in other people's yards. There are houses in my neighborhood that look on the cusp of foreclosure but my wild daisies are the problem? I think my neighbor's toxic monoculture grass lawn looks like a sterile wasteland but it's his yard. 

You were nicer than I would have been. Guy needs a hobby besides harassing others.
NTA.

'Do I know who I’m talking to'

Who is he? (Serious question) Is he the local Mob Boss?

'it’s worth being nice to him.'

Is it? Why? Who is he?
*Hello 911? I'd like to report an assault. My neighbor's house is painted colors I don't like, and it hurts my eyes.*
NTA. 


If this were how you reacted to his first complaint about your house, then YWBTA. But it sounds like he's just outright harassing you at this point. 


"We're supposed to respect our elders." Nah. Respect is earned, not given.
NTA. And your colour choices and overall garden sounds lovely!
NTA. That’s how you should have dealt with him the first time. 👏🏾👏🏾😂😂
NTA.

>“It’s time for you to grow up and get the fuck over what I’m doing with my house.”

There's nothing useful to be said to him after this.
Your house sounds awesome <3

NTA

Love he thinks it's fine for him to be disrespectful of boundaries but the second you tell him off for it you're being the disrespectful and should know who he is... WTAF.

Rest of the neighborhood is enabling his BS too sounds like.
NTA - You will always get one. And I f you retreat now, you will always be expected to do what he wants in your yard! Don't back down just add to your artwork. Personally I would go for a collection of naughty gnomes doing naughty things. Or if you are desperate you can borrow our Standard Poodle. Our neighbor complained about her because "She judges us!" Yep, our poodle is a menace for being judgy.
LOL!  
Fuck this guy.  You handled him like a pro.  
NTA.
NTA. I wish I was your neighbor. I would paint my house seafoam with pale yellow accents. My garden would be a riot of wildflowers and funky flowers with sharks and flamingos...
NTA- stop talking to him. There is no winning. You are stuck with each other.

He is looking for confrontation. I would go to the police station and ask for a tresspass notice to be issued.
NTA I live in a HOA neighborhood and my neighbor repainted his home in what I think is a terrible combo of dark brown and almost white beige. Am I gonna tell him that I think he's color choice is ugly? Of course not. It's not my house and honestly I'm just glad that he is taking care of his home.
NTA, but get a camera, because he's probably crazy and entitled enough to deface your property.
Correct me if I'm wrong but I'm going to assume that Paul is getting up there in years. Most people who have the time and energy to even notice this sort of stuff, much less harass you about it, tend to be retired.

Next time he says something, say, "Oh, Paul, we already talked about this. You came over X number times in the past month to tell me what you think about the new paint job. Don't you remember? Are you okay? Maybe you could try writing things down if you're having trouble remembering these things."

Or something like that. Oh and of course NTA. Enjoy your not-sad-beige house!
Leave him a copy of the wonderful children’s book “The Big Orange Splotch.” Could not be more relevant to your situation!
I would have asked why its worth being nice to him.
NTA. Why is he “worth being nice to” but you aren’t worth people being nice to you? He can fuck right off.
If Paul is older feign concern and ask him if he has dementia every time he brings it up, like “oh no Paul, you forgot me telling you to fuck off. Are you okay? Do you need an adult?”
Unless Paul is paying your mortgage me thinks he needs to shut his pie hole.
NTA

I did google it and it looks lovely! I hate this whole idea of people thinking they have a right to control what others do to their home. 

What I’m earth do you think your neighbor meant about “being worth being nice to him”? 

Is he mobbed up?
You are in a nonHOA community.

He doesn't pay your mortage.

He gets no say in your color palate.

Some folks need to stay in their lane......or on their side of the fence.
Put an engraved plate on the little free library dedicating it to Paul and fill it with books on how not to be a crap neighbor. NTA
NTA. When he's rude and disrespectful, you're told it's "worth it" to not put him in his place on your own property?! So he gets to be rude and nasty and harass the neighbors, but if you stand up to him somehow you're the one being unkind. 🙄  The neighbor/neighbors are placating the harmful one to avoid conflict, so they feel like you should play along since they're unwilling to hold him accountable like you did.

Especially if you're a woman (idk if you are, OP) but a lot of men feel like they're entitled to our acquiescence no matter how they speak to us, so especially if he's older and you're a woman, and younger than he is, that's probably a part of why he sees your response as disrespectful and his behavior as acceptable. And instead of standing up to him, the neighbor is asking you to change.

 I'd straightforwardly ask the neighbor if they told Grumpy Ass that it's disrespectful to harrass neighbors and that he shouldn't be talking about people behind their backs, and that if he has an issue with your response to his actions then he needs to find a way to resolve it without bad mouthing others. 


Then I'd tell the neighbor that you don't appreciate being asked to appease said neighbor when his behavior is unacceptable. That you will not be coddling a grown man who feels entitled to inappropriately harassing others, and that you hope they will respect that and refrain from asking you to do so again.
NTA

He needs to get over himself. So what is he’s lived there for 15 years? It’s not his house. You can be nice to him and still have a colourful house. 

I would put up some cameras though. 
NTA. You’re not obligated to be nice in the face of blatant disrespectful harassment. Respect is a two-way street and he’s been treating you like garbage.
NTA

Next time... cuz there's always a next time... make sure to throw FREEDOM and 'MURIKA in there somewhere
There’s no such thing as seniority in a neighborhood. Tell him to F off and if he continues to do this, you’re gonna talk to the police about harassment.
NTA. He has no right to tell you to change your house, and he sounds like a nasty piece of work, you after the umpteenth time that he bitched about the same thing would make me be rude as hell to him too.
NTA and honestly do more to irritate him. Make him lose his mind.
NTA. HOA communities exist for people just like your neighbor. He can move or he can grow up.
NTA. There is a difference between being nice and rolling over for an asshole. This behavior is the result of 15 years of his neighbors all acquiescing to his demands, to keep peace. F that. Until he offers to pay your mortgage and taxes, he has no control over your house decorations. 

Now if you were trying to decorate with flames and sparklers that could potentially damage his property, that would be different.
Neighbors: I had one move in a few years ago. I went and introduced myself to him, some small talk.
I then mentioned, his fence all discombobulated and told him I would go in half repairing or replace . He told me point blank, I mind my own business. Okay, my response was, “good fences make for good neighbors “. And walk away. A couple of years later, we don’t speak just acknowledge each other in passing, he asked if the fence thing was still good. Not no more. I mind my own business.
NTA. He doesn’t pay your bills
NTA. As I get older, I'm realizing more and more that my influence on what happens in the world drops off abruptly at my property line. Your neighbors seem to think that Paul's influence spreads as he ages, like some kind of Guru of the neighborhood. That's a dangerous thing to put in an old codger's head. 

Just realize you're trying to teach an old dog new tricks. Give him some cookies. Tell him you think he's a cute pain in the ass stereotypical nosey neighbor, and he makes the homeowner experience complete. You can worm your way into his good graces despite his asshole exterior, and then you'll have someone that keeps an eye on your place when you're not there.
This reminds me of a house in my old neighborhood. This house was looking its age, which you know, makes it look rundown but like whatever. Not my house and people don’t always have the time and/or money to paint the whole exterior of a house. Someone with the power to ended up giving the owner a citation. So they went out and painted it the most obnoxious colors…and there was nothing anyone could do.
"The day after your check to pay my mortgage clears the bank, you're allowed to make suggestions about how I maintain and decorate my home."
NTA. It sounds like you had made your thoughts really clear on what you thought of his opinion and he should have realized that further discussion was unnecessary and futile. What a sad beige life he must lead. There are so many better reasons to get your panties in a twist.
Quote him a price, 20% above the market value of your house, at which time you will move and he can paint things any color he wants.
House tax, I wanna see what it looks like. Your house sounds so insanely cute 🥹 NTA
Wait, he was in *your* yard pitching fits about *your* home and *you're* supposed to be nice to *him*? Did I get that correctly? 

Oh my. NTA OP. He does need to grow up and get over himself. It doesn't matter how long he has lived in the neighborhood. It's your house, not his. If he had wanted a say in how your house looks, he should have bought it before you.
NTA, I live in an unincorporated area and the extremely weird lawn decor is one of the joys. One place a few blocks away has giant skeletons on display, even a darn near life sized horse skeleton. Obviously they put Santa hats on them for Christmas. Another place has more gnomes than seems necessary, if I had to guess, at least 100. There’s a place near my job that keeps Halloween up all year, they painted the outside portion of their fence orange and attached a giant spider (like 3-4ft across). Your neighbor has no clue how wild some people can get.
NTA. You've tried being nice and being patient for a long time, and he's still harassing you. That is obviously not a situation that can last forever.

>Anyway one of the other neighbors came to tell me that he’s been flapping his yap about how disrespectful I am to talk to him like that. She told me that she knows he’s a pain, but that he has been in the neighborhood forever and it’s worth being nice to him.

Ask the neighbour why all the responsibility for being nice is on one side, and exactly how long does she expect you to be nice to him while he's being awful to you. Be polite but firm. This relationship has two sides, and you would love to be nice, but Paul is the one setting the tone of it.
NTA

Your neighbor's unsolicited opinions are totally rude and deserving of your comments BUT you could have handled your last interaction with him a little more diplomatically since you're going to be living near him for who knows how long. Something like, "Thank you, Neighbor. I will give your comments all the attention they deserve." Or "Bless your unsolicited opinions heart."

F\*\*k off works too, but the above suggestions would probably result in significantly less mouth flapping on his part.
I think you’re my neighbor. Lol. Do you live near a sports complex named after a famous football player who also lives around here? If not there is a little library with similar colors and a very whimsical yard. However, we don’t have HOAs but the people on the town board are even bigger pains in the damn ass that I’m surprised they didn’t make you get a permit for the little library. If not…they will. Paul might call it in.
My next door neighbor just painted his house a color that I consider close to hideous.  I’d never choose it for his house or my own.  He didn’t consult with me first.  But- It’s HIS house. HE paid for the paint job. He is very happy with it. 

Who am I to try take away someone’s happiness?
This reminds me of an old story where the neighbours took such exception to the colour of the house that they painted it while OP was away.
NTA.  You returned the respect that he gave to you.  You waited a lot longer to do so than I would have.
It's really rich that he's being blatantly disrespectful but thinks he deserves respect? Big nope on that, respect is a two way street. 
If I were in your shoes he would see a whole new level of petty - flamingos, dressed skeletons around a fire pit doing "seasonal" activities (roasting weiners, Halloween display, in a pile of leaves, playing football and baseball), every pride flag I could get my hands on, and anything else I could come up with. It's your home - make it someplace you love.
NTA Paul would probably hate my house. I keep halloween decor up all year round. I add more skeletons every year. The one neighbor who has complained about my skellys has several facing her house waving and mooning her.
Are you familiar with the concrete goose statue?
NTA


  Why does your neighbour think it's worth being nice to him?  Does he have many other good qualities that make up for his constant complaints?  
What does being nice to him involve? Does it include listening to him piss in your ear, because i don't see an upside.

Get cameras to cover your property, because Paul sounds like the type to escalate when he doesn't get his way. Position them discreetly, and make sure batteries or HD cards are changed regularly. Wifi connections in case he steals one, but don't rely on any one method of recording info; do some proper research on this, it's worth spending $$ on. This is your safety and security we are talking about.

And if he causes any damages and you have evidence, do press charges.

NTA
NTA. I’m petty, I’d have him trespassed the next time he set foot on my property. 

Also, get cameras. This sounds like a sabotage waiting to happen.
NTA.

I have a similar neighbor, he used to live in the house we bought, so now he thinks he still owns it and constantly complains about everything we do. We're doing the garden wrong, we have too many flowers in our lawn, he doesn't like that our rabbits walk around freely in our fenced garden, he's unhappy that leaves from our tree blow over into his yard, it's always something.

We put up cameras so we can see him walking around our house and checking our stuff when we're not home.

That kind of obnoxious, intrusive behavior is completely uncalled for. I hope you shut this guy up for good.
NTA. One of my neighbors renovated their house a few years ago and painted a bright blue color. It looks terrible. Do you know what I said to them? Nothing. Because what they do with their home is none of my business. Your other neighbor says she “knows he’s a pain but he’s been in the neighborhood forever and it’s worth being nice to him?” Did she give you any examples of how it’s worth it? Just because he’s lived there forever doesn’t give him any right to tell you what to do with your property. It also doesn’t entitle him to be treated in a better manner than he is treating you.
I would ask your other neighbor why it’s worth being nice to the asshole
The guy is openly hostile and you are supposed to just ‘be nice’? 

NTA he had it coming, miserable git
NTA. You’re not being rude to him. He’s coming over to your house to complain about things that are none of his business. You started polite and then when he kept at it you told him to fuck off. That’s just being assertive
A lot of people think that everyone should be a doormat to the loudest most judgemental person. 

Your neighbor knows you're likely more pleasant and generally nicer than Paul. So that's why she's claiming you should make nice. 

Frankly you should have her explain "Why should I make nice with someone who has been nothing but rude to me? Why would that be worth it?". 

Nta
We have a couple of houses in our area I swear are spite colors. Lime green and bright purple in NE. Not blending in, for sure. But that’s why you buy your own house.
NTA

If you want to be petty, tell him that if he continues to complain, you will paint the house neon lime green with neon purple trim.  That should shut him up.  The others in the neighborhood just dislike hearing him complain.  I would wind him up too, but then I can be petty.
NTA. You own your house and your decorating scheme. Paul owns the problem with it.
Excuse her? He can be fucking nice first. I am NOT going to stand there, let you walk on MY property, and tell me how I should live and do things. He can fck himself. Hard. 

Get outdoor cameras in case he tries to vandalize your home. I doubt he would, but I wouldn't risk it.

NTA tell the lady to kindly shove it too
I mean, it isn’t worth it to him to be nice to you, so why should the onus be on you? Sheesh.
NTA, its a house color, what's next? He tries to get you arrested over flowers being too colorful?
NTA

i have a neighbor nearby. its an old gentleman that owns 2 houses side by side but rents both and he simply lives as a roommate in the converted garage of one.of the houses. i always liked the house and yard and old. his tenant is a wonderful lady.

she had the house painted a very bright neon pink. in my opinion its a terrible color. i hate her choice lol.

you wanna know what i did/said about it to them? nothing. cos its literally not my business and they are happy so its all that matters.

i still think its a terrible color for a gouse though.
I will put up a board in front, Trespassers & neighbour (name) are not allowed in this property.
This is my favorite comment here 🤣 If he's not paying, he gets no say!!
After my dad painted our house a color I can only describe as radioactive urine to piss off the neighbors after my mom’s death, that was pretty much his response to all our neighbors who complained.
Always more fun to politely tell someone to go fuck themselves.
Yep. If it was worth it being nice, he wouldn’t be in OP’s face all the time, and the neighborhood wouldn’t “know he’s a pain”. NTA. 
I think the other neighbor is looking for the easiest way out. they're probably tired of having to listen to Paul carry on and on about the situation (which if it wasn't this, it would probably be something else).  So rather than also tell Paul to fuck off, they're trying to pressure OP into falling in line.

There is a very old post on here about "not rocking the boat" that I still quote to this day.  It was specifically about MILs, but I really feel like it applies to so many situations.

When someone tells you "not to rock the boat", they're actually telling you that you need to help steady the boat to keep it from sinking as there is a crazy person jumping up and down and all around.  It's way easier to ask someone to keep the boat steady then to try to tell the crazy person to stop jumping around.  Which in turn just teaches the crazy person that the more they jump around, the more people will help steady the boat....

ETA: I found the link [https://www.reddit.com/r/JUSTNOMIL/comments/77pxpo/dont\_rock\_the\_boat/](https://www.reddit.com/r/JUSTNOMIL/comments/77pxpo/dont_rock_the_boat/)
I’m kinda blown away by the idea that he’s “lived here forever” if it’s really only 15 years. A lot of my neighbors have been in their places for 40+ years! We’re still some of the newer people in the area almost a decade later!
I have such a pet peeve of people being rude then getting completely incensed when you match their energy. He expects to come talk down to someone for their  house choices but imagine if the roles were swapped, he would never put up with that! Some people never learned to not dish out what they can't take.
I keep being rude in my toolbox too. 
Exactly, at what point is the fact that he’s being consistently disrespectful to you matter?! In the words of five year olds everywhere, ‘he started it’!
Then in that case, one politely invites the neighbor to indulge in an act of self-gratification.
Hear hear! 

You get the polite version of me twice when saying no. The third time and I'm no longer polite. This applies to anyone, especially customers and co-workers who just want to have things their way. 

"I'm sorry, we're closed."

"But I'm hungry."

"Unfortunately, we already closed. This other restaurant nearby is open still."

"I don't want to eat there! I want to eat here! I see people inside! Ill be quick!"

"No. You are not eating here tonight. Get here earlier next time. "
*Madness is doing the same thing over and over again and expecting a different result.*

If you can't understand my calm words, maybe you'll understand my insults.
I had a coworker like this.  He was abrasively honest and direct.  To the point he was viewed as the office jerk.  One day I exploded at him when he hit a nerve on something personal.  He was genuinely upset because he thought we were friends and didn’t understand why I disliked him.  It was almost upsetting because his reaction wasn’t arrogant at all, he was distressed that he been hurting his coworkers.
Oh I love this route. But why, but why, but why
Do you think it could be politics?  Something about OP's description (esp the little free library) plus the tenor of the grumbling makes it sound like their house might look like a happy rainbow sunflower liberal, and maybe that's why he can't bear to gaze upon it.
This. Make it dismantle his own argument. Then afterwards I go to his house and repeat his arguments back at him about his own colour scheme. It's all subjective opinion after all.
Just start sending him random pizzas with really bizarre toppings
“Paul… it is Paul right? I wanna make sure that I know who I’m talking to. I’m gonna make a deal with you. Every time you’re over here bitching about my house or yard, I’m adding two pink flamingos to the decor. Every week that you go without bitching, I will take one flamingo down… if I hear that you’ve been talking about me to the neighbors… [duckana](https://vancouver.citynews.ca/wp-content/blogs.dir/sites/9/2022/07/21/PXL_20220721_161817042-scaled.jpg) is coming out onto the porch. Questions?”
There’s someone on Tiktok who is in this situation. They got a bunch of clothing store mannequins, some fake plastic hunting ducks, and started gluing the duck heads onto the mannequins’ bodies and putting them in their front yard.
I just googled that, and yep. Very similar vibes, though I only WISH my home was a cool ass old Victorian!
Oh I love Inman Park. I lived nearby in Virginia Highland, in a little courtyard full of festive apartments. Drove by it last year, and they’d renovated the whole property, but I was happy to see they kept my painted windows (after 25 years!)
ATL represent 🥰🥰
Inman Park ftw!! Beautiful fucking neighborhood, I'm so jealous
Definitely. This sounds like I guys who wants everyone to have a traditional green grass lawn (within a specific height of course). Don’t get me wrong I like those too but I also like wildflowers and indigenous plants. And more importantly unless it’s completely unkempt and/or negatively affecting other people I don’t care what other people do with their yards.
I love that I understood this reference (used to live in Atlanta) and agreed wholeheartedly that the colors would fit in perfectly in Inman Park.
Idk if you’re in Atlanta, but we have an Inman Park here that I immediately thought of when I saw these colors described. I love fun houses!! Way better than a neighborhood of beige family McMansions
And at Halloween swap them out with flamingos that have been painted black with skeletons!
Skeleton flamingos near Halloween
Great big Pride flag.
Yeah, I wouldn't necessarily want it for MY house, but I'd love it for my neighbor's house. I like houses to have some character. There are enough brayge houses to make room for some color.
Hello fellow ATLien?
A great time to be reminded that respect is earned, not a gift to be bestowed on whoever has been there the longest. The question I would like to ask the neighbor is why Paul deserves to be treated w respect but OP doesn’t. Don’t let them rain on your colorful parade. NTA.
A whole flock of flamingos!
They would fit right in in my neighborhood as well. Lots of little free libraries and wildflower lawns. I have a mural painted on the front of my house.
Geese with seasonal outfits!
It might not be the same but I have an Inman park that's lile this too! It's one of the most beautiful neighborhoods to live in and I count myself lucky to have grown up in it's adjacent and almost as quirky neighbor neighborhood
An old toilet out front that is filled with pansies sounds lovely!
Did you know you can buy a life sized velociraptor figure?
Inman Park FTW! My parents used to live there. I thought the variety of color choices was a selling point, as did they and their neighbors.
Hey neighbor!!! ATLLLLL
Yes Atlanta! Love all the colors in Inman Park!
I used to live in Inman park!
Absolutely love Inman Park for this very reason.
Atlanta? Love that neighborhood.  I should have bought in 30 years ago
Officially borrowing “pound salt up a hole”, that is a delight! 😂🙌🏻
I am desperately trying to figure out why it's "worth being nice" to Paul.
All I can think is "15 years is forever for him??? My partners parents have lived in theirs for 41 years I guess they make all the rules???" 
15 years isn't even enough time to raise a child to adulthood I'd hardly call that forever.
I’ve lived in my house for 23 years. Guess I better start ranting to my neighbors about their houses.
Also 15 years is not forever lmao, not even close
Absolutely, start hitting colors that include words like "electric" or "fluorescent" or "seizure"
Hey Paul, this is the last time I’m going to remind you that your opinions are unwelcome. If you come back, I’m getting the hose out. Feel free to tattle to the other neighbors, I’m not concerned about the non-HOA board. 

These other neighbors need to learn the phrase “it’s her house, stop being a bully”
[removed]
He’d be the president!  HOAs are a magnet for people like him!
This story reminded me of that one as well!!!! I was going to also suggest cameras!
I think the killing him with kindness ship sailed when he didn't let it drop, added more things to complain about, and continued to harrass OP in their own home. 

Polite interactions with your neighbors are a must of course for a drama free existence. But too often one party has zero control over that.
Anyone got a link to that post?
I remember that. I agree cameras all around
As an aside, killing someone with kindness does not always work the way a person hopes it will. I once gave my father this advice when dealing with an angry neighbor at his elderly person condo. Surprise twist that I did not see coming, sometimes the kind person ends up getting killed.
That guy must have a lot of spare cash if he is willing to pay to have his neighbour's house re-painted.
A neighbor painted his house bright yellow in our neighborhood of mostly subdued, earth-y tones. Like French’s mustard bottle yellow. The 2 houses on one side of him are a warm white and a red clay color.

I hate the yellow and it’s the first thing you see out of my back door, patio, and several windows but it would never occur to me to harass him about it?? At this point, I’m just hoping the neighbor on his other side paint theirs a relish-y green color so that we’ve got condiment row of relish, mustard, mayo and ketchup.
“Peace” is really only peaceful for the loudest asshole, for everyone else it’s a facade and a lot of walking on eggshells.
Exactly. "I tried being nice and it didn't work at all. So now I'm trying the other thing. And, so far, it's working great!"
My parents painted our childhood home overcast gray. In *Seattle*. THAT was so much worse than peach or purple.
Personally, I think stark white with black trim is the worst color you can paint a house. Everyone's got an opinion!
I think my neighbors house is obnoxious (toothpaste blue with a neon green door), but I have never said a single word to her about it. Can't think of a single reason I would.
 Personally I feel my entire life force drain when I see a neutral grey/white/beige house. I feel sad that someone would spend hundreds of thousands of dollars to be just another cookie-cutter house. The whole fun of owning a property is to do something with it, and too many people go with desaturated choices for the sake of being sellable and palatable. Different strokes for different folks
My house is pink (two shades of pink with turquiose and orange accents, actually). I don't mind that you don't like it, as long as you aren't rude about it. I'll still invite you in for a beer or sweet tea!

Edit for judgement- OP is NTA
I’m with you.  The house and the yard (hand painted pavers?) sound like complete eyesores, but it is HER house.   I also dislike when people make their front yard look like gingerbread houses, just so tacky.
there was a pink house in our town, where we don't usually have colorful houses. I don't care much for pink in general... but I didn't hate it. The new owners painted it an ugly brown, it was disgusting. I missed the pink house when we used to take our walks over that way...
Yeah I don't think *I'd* really enjoy OP's house, but it's *their* house and it's not an HOA so Paul just needs to grow up or move to an HOA community 
Hard agree! There was a peachy pink house on my street with maroon trim, complete with faded dollar store fake flowers stuck in the yard. It was an absolute eyesore. The visual equivalent of a screaming baby on a plane. Thank goodness they moved and the next people painted it a tasteful earth tone, LOL. 

As much as I hated it, I would never dream of harassing the owners about it.
Or use the kitchen term, “heard.”  It’s an acknowledgment. 
That pettiness you mentioned is exactly what I came here to say. Give that neighbour a taste of his own bitter medicine and see how he likes it!
No, even then he wouldn’t be the asshole.  Neighbor has no right to complain about OP’s house, even once.  
No trespassing (Paul, I’m talking about you specifically)
I would replace the ampersand with "including" or "especially" to emphasize that the neighbor is a trespasser.
Make it say, “by entering this property you confirm you’re not Paul [last name], you are in no way affiliated with Paul [last name], you are not entering this property on behalf of Paul [last name] or an associate of Paul [last name].” 

In reference to Anish Kapoor & the world’s pinkest pink.
‘People named Paul not allowed’
I’d put up a rainbow flag with “we love Paul” on it instead .
Keep out! (Especially Paul)
I’d just go with “dont ever talk down to me about me or my property, you have no right to talk to me like that.”

Actually no, this guy was right. So add the 

“Oh! And until you can talk to me decently leaving me alone. Get fucked Paul.
I saw it on Pinterest or something - “Thou may ingest a sack full of Richards” 🤣🤣🤣
I would have responded to the "it's worth being nice to him" with the question if "really? how? how is it worth it?" I doubt that there is an answer that the neighbor could provide that would actually be worth what "being nice" really means here.

Because just politely nodding when he's in OPs face yet again probably doesn't count. I doubt anything less than completely redecorating the exterior and yard would qualify. Which is not "being nice". It's giving into the demands of the neighborhood bully.

And it doesn't matter what sort of things the would-be neighborhood dictator does for people that appease him. Having to kowtow to his landscaping and home decor whims in order to curry his favor is a net negative situation.
Exactly this came to mind. It applies eeeeverywhere 😳
If the other neighbor is also tired of the bitching, have they considered not listening to Paul?

You’re NTA. This guy sucks and I wouldn’t bother going to the door for him, or even responding with more than “cool” and continuing with my activities. Some people feel entitled to others’ lives because they’ve alienated everyone else. He’ll eventually get the point.
Where I grew up, 15 years would be the new kid in the neighborhood. We had multiple generations going back. Just divide the property in half and build another house for the kids.
Seriously, that is 2009. 2009.
I can't believe I had to scroll down this far in the comments to find this. I too got tripped up by the idea that "lived here forever" is only fifteen years in OP's neighborhood. My folks have been in their place almost fifty and they aren't the oldest house on our street by a long shot. Of course, they're also not nosy and pushy about other peoples' properties either, new or old...
Maybe that's what should happen.  Stand in his yard and be like, "so  you're gonna keep your house this shade of gray?  Wow, that's boring."
I bet my very last French Fry that this is the kind of dude who went ballistic during the pandemic when restaurants went takeout only because he couldn't harass waitresses for a few months.
This is my downstairs neighbour to a tee, he is the rudest man alive but would perish from the *disrespect* if he was ever spoken to like that. Yesterday he was screaming because a teeny tiny bit of water dropped close to but not on his uncovered patio (we live in an apartment). You’d have thought it was toxic waste. Today it’s raining and I’m having to hold myself back from knocking on his door to “see if he’s okay;” since a couple of water droplets was a heart attack I have to assume rain has murdered him
Yup. Politeness and manners first is my default stance towards anyone, but sometimes you've got to pull out the rudeness for persistently rude and intrusive people. 
I had a mental picture of you sticking your head into a metal toolbox and yelling obscenities at the tools.  I was very confused.  It took me a moment to figure out what you very clearly wrote.
A lot of issues do seem like they’d be resolved or never occur if people just went and fucked themselves. They’d feel a lot better.
It definitely sounds like that but OP says that’s the neighborhood’s vibe and several homes are similar.  Does he harass every homeowner who’s house color he dislikes?  That sounds exhausting.  I will never be able to afford a house but OP sounds like an ideal neighbor
Some giant gnomes would be great companions to the flamingos. They have gnomes for all seasons too.
When I was in middle school I moved in to a house who neighbors were having a flamingo war. One of the neighbors A loved flamingos and fun stuff, neighbor B HATED it. They constantly complained, and pulled the flamingos out of the grass so they were laying down, eventually escalating to stealing them. Everytime single time neighbor B did this, A would buy another flamingo. By the time I showed up A had won, and flaunted their victory via 25 yard flamingos. And a number of other fun yard decorations that they never heard a complaint about again, though they received more than a few glares from B.
Do this but also get his name wrong in a different way every time. The other neighbor is also totally wrong, there's no point playing nice if he's coming out the gate as an ass. Also NTA
OMG duckana is amazing.
Ooo! One of those big metal roosters
Not just flamingos!!! When it comes to seasonal events, every complaint gets a bigger thing added. Go for all seasonal events, including Valentines Day and especially Pride (colour AND support for the Alphabet Mafia? He’s guaranteed to HATE that!!!!)
Oh man I need a duckana
Love the flamingos, hell I would put a whole flock of them out there. Embrace the tacky, let your freak flag fly, and tell Paul to fuck right off of your property and don’t come back.  Hell add a sign out front that says something like all welcome but Paul.
yes!!!! This!!

We live in an HOA, unfortunately. They do nothing but collect fees and have coffee meetings. There are no rules about lawn ornaments. My neighbor got a life size giraffe and her baby that sits to the side of her front door. It is glorious!  Someone in the HOA complained. Because of the complaint someone put a life size zebra by their front door.  Another complaint caused other lawn ornaments such as a monster turtle and flamingos. One guy mentioned he was looking to have a dinosaur installed. No one knows who the complaints are coming from. The board just passes the complaints on to each house as they come in. I figure we will narrow it down when the complainers house is the only house without a lawn ornament. I am personally looking for a hippo.
Or OP could find one of these, and name it [Paul](https://tapinto-production.s3.amazonaws.com/uploads/articles/ar/best_crop_a08401a423147fd5170d_Archie_Rooster_1.jpg?id=4441749) in honor of him being one.
Don't forget the 5 ft tall metal chicken, and the gnome on the porch that you decorate for the seasons. They have been done before buy that is why they are the classics.
I'm broke but here is an award:  🏅
If OP needs a nuclear option: Toilet Flower planters
When you get to 10 flamingos, I bring out the giant skeleton. It will be pointed in your direction. It will be wearing a tutu. That one stays out for a month. 

Don't push it, Paul. Home Depot not only recently released a canine companion for it, but there's now a giant chicken skeleton.
YES!!!! 😂🙌🏻 This is the way.
I'd start adding those giant inflatable Halloween and Christmas shit that people put up for those times of the year. Except just keep adding random ones.

I love the idea that he looks out and sees a 25' skeleton looming in the neighbourhood.
Don't forget to get the skel-a-mingos for Halloween.
😂😂🤣🤣🤣🤣
I want one!!!!
Amazing, bringing back the ducknana ftw 🙌🏻
Why tf is the duckana 200 bucks 😭😭😂
Gandalf sign with the following

YOU SHALL NOT..... (TELL ME WHAT TO DO IN MY HOME.) ... PASS
We have a giant metal spider my aunt crafted for us out of rebar and an old gas tank.  His name is Fluffy and I love him and he lives in our front yard year round.
This actually happened in my old neighborhood, but it was manikins. Dude put one out for Christmas as a joke and then started putting it in different costumes for different holidays as the year went by. Some neighbor got a burr up his butt and would not stop harassing Dude. By the end of summer, Dude had a dozen of them in the yard/on the porch decked out in the tackiest swimwear you can image. It was amazing. They stayed a fixture for the next five years or so until he eventually moved.
You need to escalate like [Christmas gargoyle lady](https://cheezburger.com/13190149/hilarious-saga-of-karen-vs-frank-the-christmas-gargoyle)
I have a Mediterranean style home, I've been thinking about repainting, am taking your colors into consideration, I too have a Paul, but she's actually slowed down with her critiques or advise, she's lived in my neighborhood from the early 70's, she acts like she owns all the houses on the block. She told me she didn't like how my gardener cared for my yard, etc.  She soon realized I didn't care about what she said. You're NTA.
NTA.  Paul's problem is Paul.  If he doesn't want to be talked to like that, he should mind his own business.  As long as you're not doing anything illegal on your property it's none of his business what you do or how you decorate.  Those that want respect give respect.  He needs to respect you and your property.  He doesn't have to like it, but once again it's none of his business or concern.  Just because he's lived thete longer doesnt give him any special rights or privileges.  I find it amusing he went and tattled to the other  neighbors.  Real mature.
Get a [Beyoncé.](https://thebloggess.com/2011/06/21/and-thats-why-you-should-learn-to-pick-your-battles/amp/)

Edit: Maybe then your neighbour, too, will learn to pick his battles.
Born in Atlanta!
There’s an awesome house with shades of purple and blue in Inman Park just down the street from Revolution Donuts!
What I *want* is a black vulture figurine. All the vulture figurines I’ve found on Amazon are brown or have way too much white on them.
Me too!
I know, right? I've always used "pound sand," but this is great!
Because then he'll stay in his good graces, of course! (spoiler: he won't).
Ooo yes let's get some ectoplasmic green and some seizure salmon palletes up in here!
He is the kind of person that invented HOAs to keep "undesirables" out of his neighborhood and to enforce his personal design on everybody.
Like my grandfather. 

My grandfather was such a domineering jerk. He bullied people, including this kind of crap. When they fully retired (to Florida), he was eventually kicked off the condo board. He was that bad. I thought it was just, & hysterical. Still brings a smile to my face.
Sometimes "kill them with kindness" is viewed as weakness and as a permission to keep harassing or even escalate their behavior.
[https://www.reddit.com/r/legaladvice/comments/3jsxc6/my\_neighbors\_didnt\_like\_the\_color\_of\_my\_house\_was/](https://www.reddit.com/r/legaladvice/comments/3jsxc6/my_neighbors_didnt_like_the_color_of_my_house_was/)
Whoa. Your dad got killed? I'm so sorry for your loss. Was killer brought to justice?
I'm pretty sure that they came after the homeowner claiming they needed to pay them back for the work (that the homeowner didn't authorised or want).
That’s pretty much camouflage up there. Like how could you find your gray house in Seattle?
My only experience of Seattle was visiting when you had no rain or cloud and it was warmer than tons of other places in the US, it was glorious, bright and beautiful. I can’t get an overcast Seattle to fit in with my experience of it.
NTA. Growing up in Florida and visiting Key West, all the houses had many colorful schemes. And guess what?! Many ornery older folks move down there, claiming “it’s a breath of fresh air”, “people walk to their own beat”, “snow birds are the best birds” etc. 

This neighbor is an unhappy person— nothing, and I mean n-o-t-h-i-n-g will make them happy. Ever. His happiness? is seeing you just as miserable as him. Period.
Exactly! I love my little black goth shack, but I think yours is great because you love it. Why can't others just let people enjoy their yums?
So agree..
Everyone does have an opinion, yes. However, if those people want their opinion to mean anything, then they should live in a place with an HOA; with a theme they like. 

Everyone hates on HOA's, but if you don't want your neighbors to paint their house a color you don't like, live there. 

You can't get pissy when your neighbor paints their house a color you don't like, if you choose to live in an hoa-free location. 

Hard NTA here. You're well within yoir rights.
Not me catching a stray I just painted my house stark white with black trim 🫢
Those just need some hot pink grout!!! Nice light to dark pink ombre, ouuuuuuuu
I totally agree! BTW, NTA! I love your colour choices 👍

Our house is green with black and white trim and the front door is red! Guess Paul wouldn't like our house either!
Completely agree. I'd love a purple or pink house. I live in a town with a ton of queen anne victorians and the purple and pink ones are my favorite.
As a home builder myself, it's almost always about cost. Custom paint costs way more... that's why you see so many yellow homes, it's the most cost effective color. Standard caulking comes in all sorts of greys, whites, browns, beige.. it just all adds up when you start going custom.

And also to your point... most people don't buy a house because they want the outside to be some kind of artwork, they just want it to appear clean and be easily sustainable. Bright colors fade and get dirty much easier. 

The bottom 4 feet of a bright pink house don't hold up very well to the elements, vs earth tones.
I would at least paint a house a pastel blue, just to be different.
My house is the colour of a shamrock shake. It is blinding in direct sunlight. It is sandwiched between two beige beige beige boring terraces. I LOVE IT.
sounds like you have an energy vampire problem
"My colors are Blush and Bashfull, mama"
Here's your sign:  

Dear Paul,  

Get fucked.  

Sincerely, Home Owner
Thanks. English is not my first language, so sometimes I can't express my thoughts in words.
I am also too lazy to read thesaurus/dictionary to learn more😀
i felt so smart getting this reference hehe thank u for the laugh
Literally. What “benefit” could there possibly be to putting your head down and being quietly tolerant to someone who repeatedly seeks conflict with you over the look of your home? The home is not ugly or unmaintained. It’s simply not to this neighbours aesthetic preference. Who would care? It’s not his house. Just because he’s lived there for a longer time doesn’t mean he should be able to forego basic decency and go around being a total asshat to anyone he doesn’t like. (and how is 15 years even long enough to establish whst the other neighbour thinks is some kind of imaginary authority to enable him to criticize someone’s home like this?)
I'm all for weighing the pros and cons of playing nice and keeping your head down in a temporary situation (I've previously kept my head down around shitty neighbours while looking for a new place at the end of the tenancy), but this is not a temporary situation. Boundaries need to be firmly established.
Oh my god you totally should
Oh I’m going to need updates about this.
Perhaps a gnome with his trousers down mooning at Paul?
OP, you're not an AH, your neighbour sounds very much like mine. He thinks he's in charge of our cul-de-sac. I've got a notebook to keep a record of each of our shall we say 'differs of opinion'. He's fallen out with all of the neighbours at some point. Have your house and garden whatever way you and your family want - it sounds fabulous. Ignore him,  hopefully he'll get bored soon. But a couple of discreet cameras might be an idea just in case.
They have gnomes riding flamingos for yard decorations. Maybe a few of those, lol.
My friend put gnomes facing her hateful neighbor. She painted all their eyes red. 😂
Oooh! And the satanic gargoyle! 
The frank the gargoyle is legendary!
And a giant blow up santa--year round
Mooning gnomes
Ok, where to donate to the flamingo and colorful naked gnomes to piss Paul collection ?
There's this area in front of a house in DC where they have a tiny little gnome? Elf? village. The figures are less than two inches tall, and there is a bunch of them, with little houses and other buildings, that surround the tree. Whoever the owner is also decorates it for Christmas. 

OP could totally do a little village like that as well.
Zombie gnomes
Maybe there’s even a giant Gnome Chomsky!
Do you have a link to said giant gnomes lol
When it gets too full of flamingos, trade in 5 for a giant gnome
NTA 

I’m gonna need a go fund me and reaction livestream to fully support the NTA!! 🤣
Someone must lead the flamingo uprising!!! It’s only natural in a situation like this to very quickly have an entire yard of flamingos and once you reach a certain number things can get crazy!!! The giant gnome will lead them as the prophesy has told!!!
Gnomes on stripper poles and thongs
One of my neighbors has a line of children's ride-on toys along every inch of her property line. (Tricycles, trucks, trains, etc.) Each one has a different doll or stuffed animal "driving" it. Must be at least 50 of them. Another yard is filled with animal-shaped topiaries. Non-HOA neighborhoods ftw!
My pain in the ass neighbor mentioned he hated gnomes when I put one in my front garden, I smiled and nodded my head. I now have 7 gnomes in my front garden. 😆
Gnomes riding flamingos ftw!
It will also be funny if he starts referring to the gnomes by name and assign personalities to them.
How about the dinosaur eating gnome statue? I gave one to my youngest nephew-he loves it. Or resin aliens? The possibilities are endless!
And fairies!!
I saw gnomes smoking a bong at a shop this weekend LOL
Gnomes RIDING flamingos.  Gnomes RIDING a T-Rex.  Zombie gnomes EATING a tipped over flamingo.  The possibilities are endless and just an Amazon search away.
go full jurassic park. life size raptors and a 30 ft T-Rex
I bought a T-Rex gnome for Halloween that is eating little gnomes. It’s up year round. HOA doesn’t care since it’s by the front door and out of sight unless you walk up. Definitely recommend seasonal lawn gnomes.
Ooh get one wearing a Speedo and sunglasses!
My neighbor has flamingos that move around their lawn.  They also have an old busted rusty truck that they decorate with different things year round.  another neighbor thought it was an eyesore and started proceedings to get it removed.  First neighbor gets it registered and puts a license plate on it and other neighbor can’t do anything!  This was 10 years ago and still makes me laugh!
neighbor is just tired of him coming and whining to her about OP ('s home which sounds lovely) and is thinking that she can work on OP's soft side.

Hope OP let's it all run right off like you say.
Yeah, and 15 years really isn’t that long to live in one neighborhood. Even if he lived there for 50, you don’t get to complain about other people’s taste, just because it’s not yours. Sounds like a grumpy old man who’s got nothing else to do.
There was a local FRENZY for Duckana a few years back. People were travelling to adjacent towns to check if the London Drugs THERE had any because they were cleaned out. There was a Duckana meetup at a park. Lol. There’s probably lots of 2nd hand ones popping up at yard sales now.
IDK, I don't think they're all that quacked up to be...

...I'll see myself out.
Ohvyes !  Good old Tractor Supply has those roosters, fun and colorful.  You can also pick up a 10 foot tall rustic windmill, and a little white metal lamb.  I would be having the time of my life decorating my lawn for that Jackass
But go for them out of order. Valentines? Decorate for St Patrick's. Easter? Get out the pumpkins! Who else fancies Christmas on the 4th July...
I'd take a page out of my ex-wife's playbook. For all her faults, she does not take shit from *anyone*.


She has very eclectic (that's the nice word for tacky, right?) taste, and we lived next to neighbors who *hated* her collection of lawn ornaments. One day she discovered that you can buy lawn flamingos by the case from Dollar Tree. So she ordered one, and from then on any time the neighbors bitched about our house/yard she would add another flamingo to the flock and move them all to a new spot in our yard, all placed to stare directly at the neighbors' house.
Honestly, I feel like getting a Hunter involved and "rent" his fake geese out of season is another way if money is a problem. 

Just real life looking geese staring Paul down
That's a big cock. Perfect to greet your neighbor who's a big dick. Great idea, Merle!
Hang a large name-tag on it, or a sign "In honour of Paul"
Beyonce the chicken for the win!
This year it’s avacatos
I LOVED the Frank the Gargoyle story. I'd have done the same damn thing.
Yes. I don't even need to read it to know which story this is. Just yes.
well that has made my day...HAHAHA TFS!!
I came to say this exactly. You need Frank.
I was so invested at the time, I aspire to be that level of petty!
I have the exact same skeleton dog on my front porch.  It's been there for years and has a Thunder Vest on.   It howls when people walk by,  but I had to turn it off because it got my dogs barking.    

Every time my cousin drives by,  she'll text me to ask if I'm going to take it down any time soon.    LOL
“Well, I don’t like how your hairdresser does your hair, but here we are!” is what I would have *thought* a good seven hours after the fact.
Memories: me and my siblings used to say 'real mature' to each other when we were around 10-12.
Oh God, if my wife manage to put a (checks feet/meter conversions ) giant metal chicken in our door, don't matter how many towels battles we had before, I'd be laughing for months. 
I needed this story lol!
What an excellent story! I too have a "Victor"....
Very good point. There are certain relationships & personality types that that approach is great for. And it definitely makes you look good to other people. But it very rarely has more benefits than costs
You had me at "Kill them" 😈
They sued her for the cost of painting her house & I can’t find the resolution. I’m so sad.
Thank you!
Thank you. But No, no justice for my father.
Good luck with that! LOL
That's like the guy on next door app bitching about the kids at the park being noisy on the weekends. 

Why the fuck did you buy the house by the park if you didn't want to hear noisy kids? I got mine here specifically so my kids can go to the park whenever
Like all black? There's someone a few streets over who has that with a purple door and it looks AWESOME. Not my thing but I love seeing it when I walk by.
Same, it’s my absolute favorite lol. With a bunch of greenery and colorful flowers? Cannot picture something prettier (to me).
The funny thing is that for the past weeks there has been a house that has been painted a salmony pink and I think its the most delightful place ever, I've straight up changed my commute so I can look at it while it's being worked on! I LOVE the bright house of communities, they're the best things ever. Neutral design is a bane on humanity.
If you do, get a paint sample and put it on all 4 exterior walls and look at it several times a day to see exactly what it looks like under various conditions. I bought house paint that I *thought* was pastel blue. That little paint chip lied. It was almost an electric blue.

It made it easy to give directions, though. We told people to turn onto our street and look for the blue house with the flagpole.
Sign it "Disrespectfully, Home Owner"
I'm always impressed by multilingual people. Your sentence wasn't wrong, I just thought it could be meaner to the neighbor. :)
English is a horrible language (only one I speak) and yours is flawless for not being a native speaker! I'm always in awe of anyone who learns English as an additional language. So much of it makes no sense at all.
Or one of those 10-ft tall skeletons that people generally only put up at Halloween, but leave it up year-round in various festive clothing to match the season/holiday. Like the gorilla in La Grange.
Paul needs to get over it. I have a T-Rex eating gnomes and a grotesque on my front porch. 

The only issue is I'd like the T rexto be 2 ft tall. It's too small.
My husband created giant snowflakes lit with soft white Christmas lights. He then placed them all over the house in a manner that looked like they were ninja stars impaled on the house and in the yard. We were pre-HOA and the HOA biddies hated it. The HOA had rules for decorations and *technically* we were fine. Ended up being a huge attraction. He made them red pentagrams for Halloween. That was extra fun. We live in the Deep South. Enjoy your home. It sounds gorgeous. I know I would be happy seeing your joy everyday. People are such funsuckers.
No need for them to moon him. Just a slowly growing army of gnomes that all face toward his house
My neighbors have a motion sensor farting gnome.


Tbh, I hate the damn thing because we share an entrance and I set it off all the time. I'm not a person who enjoys fart jokes.


The worst I've ever done was face it to the wall when they were on vacation, otherwise I'd never touch it.


But I feel like OP needs to add a farting gnome that gets set off by people on the sidewalk, just for Nosey Paul.
Yes to the mooning gnome! But offer to move it if he can give your house a genuine compliment.
A collection of [caganers](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Caganer) all over the yard
I've seen some very well kept bushes shaped into fist with the old 'one finger salute'.  Shame if it was pointed in his direction.
I bought my dad a gnome, it's holding a sign saying go away and has a finger up. Best thing I ever bought
You need a fat lady bending over, showing her bloomers

[I see London, I see France…](https://www.pinterest.com/pin/zombie-lawn-ornament--323062973250847723/)
To ensure he gets the message use sharpie to add a little "Hi Paul" tattoo on one cheek.
I collect flamingos, inside and outside. My partner moved in with that "mooning" gnome. 

Thankfully, my neighbors are not "Pauls"
[Couple of these guys pointed at his house](
https://www.amazon.com/nicylin-Middle-Naughty-Outdoor-Statues/dp/B0CTF525QX/ref=mp_s_a_1_4?dib=eyJ2IjoiMSJ9.y9rmDLyjzEztkj9Kx6uDgW3ZuSX8-L0tC-seCZmkSIkbaWQxt0b5Xh6IdcUecQGaog1HWZgBcMM-MYoPlzEeJzBNHeR_lWUgHrX7nFIXsgirqqEgqmgp-Gx_oxU-uLbQX3CLafPYQ1rRd3pYrvQ7aGL51CZ3PaSkd1PJwkW_dkhlpGADBqWui2qPqKUrVvkTM4Kad0lyylVruLxavR7_oQ.TbSeyyOJZLWPnGe0hc9S4sJBhrSQ5qBCrWq6kgEA83Y&dib_tag=se&keywords=Garden+Gnome+Giving+The+Finger&qid=1722286617&sr=8-4)
A mooning garden gnome? Sounds like a brill idea 😅 
My husband bought my mom a mooning gnome to point at her cunt of a next door neighbour. It was on her deck railing with his little gnome ass facing the neighbour for years before the raccoons knocked it over.
They also have a gnome on Amazon smoking a cigar and flipping people off. He’s tiny tho. Maybe they sell a life size version. Aimed at his house🤪
I was gonna suggest that as a joke BUT THEY EXIST??? Omg
I was going to say this same thing. Totally reminds of Frank and his hippo buddy!!!
I collect gargoyles. Lots and lots of gargoyles. And bird flipping gnomes.
Frank the gargoyle is sold in KY.

I 🖤🖤🖤 my Frank!

(Edit: the original Frank is in Ohio….somewhere.  I need to do the army by of friends for him as well.)
And a poop emoji with a Santa hat!
House in my town had a rusted car in their yard. The city told them to get rid of it. House guys cut the car in half, planted each half upright in the soil, painted them both, and called it an art installation. City apparently couldn’t complain about art. 

They also installed a yard toilet that they used as a planter, and an upright claw-foot bathtub that held a paper-mache statue of the local college football coach. House fronted on a main thoroughfare, too. It was glorious.
That is EPIC.
London Drugs has new ones this year! A Lion/orange, a cat/avocado and a koala/kiwi.
Reminds me of the viral blog post about Beyoncé the Giant Metal Chicken- the blog writer had found a 5-foot tall metal chicken and brought it home, her husband was NOT amused and hilarity ensued. https://thebloggess.com/2011/06/21/and-thats-why-you-should-learn-to-pick-your-battles/
That blog entry is from 2011 and I still laugh to myself thinking about bringing home giant metal chickens!
My mom and stepdad do that to my sister. She thinks lawn decor is tacky…which just encourages my stepdad to buy more. He bought a windmill and painted it “John Deere” green. He’s also purchased most of the seasonal decorations too. 😂
My brother has a lifesize metal goat in his yard that I am positively in love with!  I thought about stealing it from him, but I know if I do I will go to hell when I die!
A year round Nativity could be fun.
This is giving me James and the Giant Duck vibes

 https://youtu.be/uYOmtEcZ1lk?si=1BOeCQj9UM-WKTGI
I got a small metal peacock and Jenny named it for me.
How can I get one? I love it!
But Frank’s FB page is gone. 😥
Honestly if I left a note about a gargoyle (which I would never, gargoyles are tight as fuck), and their response was to put holiday appropriate attire on it? I would be like fair enough, you win
It's always at least 7 hours before the right snappy comeback makes an appearance. Never fails!
Ah, l’esprit de l’escalier!
Exactly! You catch more flies with honey than with vinegar, but for some people it's just seen as permission to walk all over you.
Ooh, I saw this one on Facebook.  I think she originally sued them and the neighbors countersued for the cost of painting.  In the end, the neighbors were found guilty of vandalism and fraud (because they told the painters it was their house) and had to do community service and had to pay to have the house painted back to yellow and court fees

[Facebook ](https://www.facebook.com/share/p/rv3CareVwbbLVULV/?mibextid=oFDknk)
I believe they ended up confessing on record and were court ordered to pay to paint it back.
The absolute fucking gall to do that plus sue for payment.
I remember reading that post when it was new! I have made my peace with not getting an update, but it still bothers me a bit.
Their update was removed, but popped up on [BORU](https://www.reddit.com/r/BestofRedditorUpdates/comments/1dlp6qo/my_neighbors_didnt_like_the_color_of_my_house_was/?ref=share&ref_source=link) a month ago.
Matte black with slate gray highlights and white trim.
>purple door

You got a neighborhood witch!
Red door! You got a neighborhood something else! 😃
"Your sentence wasn't wrong I just thought it could be meaner" is one of the funniest things I've read, thank you for the laugh!
Okay. That is what my thoughts were, i.e to be mean and petty.
The English language is a bunch of languages wrapped in tin foil and shoved into a trench coat attempting to pretend at being a full understandable language. (Also not my first language, I wish I'd never learned it, but I learned it because of ✨trauma✨)
You can mirror ball it  
https://www.instagram.com/reel/C7mGB-HouE3/?

utm\_source=ig\_web\_copy\_link&igsh=MzRlODBiNWFlZA==
I vote for a Dragon! Dragons are cool! And get one of the motion sensor ones that moves and roars when you get too close.
Someone in my town does this, but between holidays they give the skeleton a wig and then put it on a stripper pole (aka a flag pole that's been repurposed for much more entertaining things)
And dress it like Paul
Used to walk by a house that had a HUGE blow up spider that was dressed for every holiday. Always enjoyed seeing the latest outfit. Also in my neighborhood someone has a kickboxing dummy that is dressed for all holidays/reasons, my favorite back in April 2020 was “COVID - The Black Death Tour”.
And definitely some fairies.  Lots and lots of fairies.  And lots of those big LED flower sprays that change colors all night.
me, I got my 12 ft skeleton up all year round and decorated for different holidays 😅
My neighbors took down the giant skeleton after Halloween, but they left the three-foot skull on their lawn, and I love it.
Omg, you know about the gorilla in La Grange? You made this small town escapee happy.
There is someone nearby who does this and now I wonder if it’s for this reason. Either way, it brings me such joy!
I'm also very into this idea
Someone in my area actually has one of those!  It is holding a US flag right now, ever since Memorial Day.
Dress the skeleton up like Paul, have random scenes set up in the front garden
I've seen these around my area outside of spooky season. I saw some in June waving pride flags.
Every day on my way to work, I used to drive by a house that has those plastic Halloween skeletons sitting on the front porch. They regularly changed clothes (my favorite was all the Hawaiian shirts and sunglasses in summer), and they were holding up one of those signs where you can change out the letters, so there was always some funny quip or joke on there. It was always the highlight of my drive. OP's neighbor would probably hate it.

Edit: I work somewhere else now so I don't see it anymore. Sadly, my husband just told me that the last time he went by there, they were gone. I hope the owners just moved and that the skeletons live on somewhere else.
I have one of those skeletons, and the dragon. They live in my front yard year round and I decorate them for each holiday/season. Right now Mr. BoneJangles is in a black robe and is holding up a bug zapper. He is the "Death of Mosquitos." Errol the dragon has a pretty pink princess collar on and is just hanging out.

My neighbors fucking love them.
There’s a house down the road that did that for most of the year. They did it nicely. I can see the skeleton or dragon going two ways but on a major road you most certainly do not want it to be a distraction.
In our town we have a large skeleton in the summer it’s on a zero turn lawn mower in the winter behind a snow blower. I love it
Our town has one of those!! Everyone loves the seasonal skelly
I have a neighbor down the street who actually does this. I don’t know if it’s to piss someone off, or if they just love doing it, but I know I love it more than anything. We’ve named him Steve in our house, and every time we drive by we yell “STEEEEVE!” He had a Santa hat, beard, and jacket, for Christmas, he was covered in hearts for Valentine’s Day, he had a large green hat and a pot of gold in March, and he had sparklers, and an American flag beside him for 4th of July. I wanted to get him a hula skirt and a coconut bra for the summer, but haven’t had the money. 😂🤣 I also thought it might be weird for them, to have a stranger drop accessories for their yard decoration out, of nowhere. But we love Steve.
Halloween is coming.  This could be your year!

I regret not buying skeledogs when they were on sale but I wasn’t over losing my dog them
I love the T-rex eating gnomes! I laughed myself silly the first time I saw it. XD
I have the T-Rex eating gnomes and I love it! I also have a bear eating gnomes. The problem with the bear is it’s the same size as the T-Rex and they are both too small.
That sounds awesome! Can you post a pic? 🦖
[deleted]
A few years back here in Anchorage AK a guy made a huge snowman and called it Snowzilla.  It took more snow than the guy had in his yard so it became a neighborhood effort. Snowzilla made appearances for a few years in a row. It was a hit until the neighbors complained to the city about the attention it was getting.  After a few year’s absence Snowzilla made his triumphant return this last winter because what else could be done with the record snowfalls and the constant bitching about snowplowing the roads.  Love it!!!
Pics? This sounds amazing!
I’d rotate and reposition them a bit daily, too. Just up the creep factor.
You hold a "dress up my gnomes" contest for the whole neighborhood to participate in. Winner gets to take home the gnome of their choice.
Sigh. Gonna wreck my search history again, I need this.
And a peeing cherub
It’d be even better if she  painted PAUL on its bare ass.
Pointing towards Paul’s house, of course. 

If questioned, just say you are all Catalans at heart.
My dad would have approved if I'd bought him one of them.🤣
They would be ideal.
Wait a cat avocado? I need to see a photo of this.
The kiwala is freaky
KNOCK KNOCK MOTHERFUCKER!
Jenny Lawson (The Bloggess) is a national treasure!
I have a life-size metal chicken in my backyard thanks to the Bloggess and Beyoncé. But because my spouse does not Internet and wouldn't appreciate the reference, my metal chicken is named Cluck Norris.
OMG - that is *hilarious*!
  
I ache now, from laughing.
I loved Beyoncé the metal chicken!
I came here to suggest these exact chickens from that exact post.
*whispers* do NOT bring any more fucking towels into this house
I actually have real chickens now and you *know* I named my favorite one Beyoncé.
I need closure! What happened at the end!!!
It’s almost always when I’m trying to fall asleep, too.
And who wants flies anyway.
The last time my sort-of boss dropped that saying on me, I told him I’d catch way more flies with a rotting corpse… so probably that adage needs to go by the wayside.
I can't imagine the audacity to paint someone else's home while they're away and then sue them for the cost when caught out. Even after being found guilty and having to pay for repainting plus doing community service, it sounds like the neighbors were still vicious and didn't really learn their lesson. Wish the judge would have given them jail time. The other neighbors were awesome though.
That was a horrible little narrative somebody spun that took little bits of the story & made it their own. But thanks for trying.
They confessed when they sued for payback of the money they spent painting OPs house.
That was what screwed them in court from what I remember. But lmao the audacity.
Omg that would go perfect with my little fake Gothic Christmas tree! O:
Omg I want to see both your houses! I don't know which I'd love more
Agreed
You: English isn't my first language

Also you: throws out a completely correct "i.e." in context

Your English is EXCELLENT buddy, and I never would have pegged you as a non-native speaker. Also I enjoy your pettiness as well!
Mirror ball the skeleton!!!
That's so awesome!!
That's amazing thanks for the link
That is so very cool! I like this idea.
Ali Spagnola is amazing.
Holy crap,  that's amazing. If I didn't live in the shittiest HOA, I would do that in a heartbeat.
There was a home I saw many years ago that had the most beautiful metal dragon (not sure what it was made of) holding a crystal ball. It was a gorgeous piece that was like 8 feet tall. I loved it!!!!
I also vote dragon.
My friend has a 3-4 ft tall skele-dragon that looks like a pet dog for her 10ft giant skeleton.
Oh, yes! Me want one too! 😂😂
As a lover of all things Dragon, Nerdy, and Halloween I support both of these. Maybe a Skeleton riding a Dragon?

OP, NTA
Fire breathing dragons
Yes! I would place giant fire-breathing dragons on the lawn.
They have those 10+ feet size T-Rex Skeletons you can probably modify to have wings!
Dragon and somehow fix it to the roof and it has to have a  motion detector for the wings
Bonus if it actually breathes fire and singes neighbour Paul's bald pate.
I have been buying my dad dragons and gargoyles (plus one lawn alligator and two baby dinosaurs) every birthday, father’s day, and Christmas for my parents’ house for the last few years. My mother has given up complaining and just rolls her eyes now. If you need any suggestions, I have several.
I'd love to see this
We had a couple of neighbors dress their skeletons up as Santa Claus, a leprechaun, Easter bunny and Uncle Sam, I’m sure a turkey will be seen for thanksgiving
😂
Two different nuclear families in our greater family just went camping together. We both brought our family skeletons. Slim and Bone-ita were delighted to see each other and celebrate Summerween.
That is now officially my favorite idea ever!
I want to live in a neighborhood with all of y'all. It would be fun to walk the block every day to see what new decorations had been added!
Same! I’ve got two 12’ skeletons (one up year round) plus a massive myriad of other “creepy” Halloween decorations that rotate throughout my yard continuously. Only ever had one neighbor complain and they only shut up when I sold my car and replaced it with a 1993 Hearse. 

I also own the local Halloween/costume store so I think they realized it was a losing battle lol
Someone in my town has two of them and does this and I love it! The guy skeleton is wearing Hawaiian print board shorts and has a giant inflatable beer in his hand and the lady skeleton is wearing a bikini for the summer. It makes me smile every time I drive down that street :)
I wish you lived in my neighborhood.
I been to LaGrange a few times and haven't seen that one. I have been to that cafe where the owner is extremely rude though.
It’s the only reason I’ll willingly go through La Grange, since going the 183 route south out of Austin cuts a good 45 minutes off my trip to visit my sister in Hallettsville. But I just love that gorilla…
I am SO SORRY to hear about the loss of your dog. That is devastating.
I have the cat eating gnomes in my gnome garden in my back yard as well. Drunk gnomes passed out around the campfire, a barfing gnome, glowing cats, a lit water can pouring light into a rock and glass drop stream, a tiny resin Stonehenge, and a small alien spaceship crashed in the corner. It's a hobby...
Start them all over the lawn and every day or two move them a couple of inches closer to his side of your property until they are all just grouped together at the property line staring at him!
Yeeessssss
Oh I like that!
yes.
Classy Belgian art!
Peeing on the gnome's butt, with the nametag 'Poll' so he can't claim you're targeting him.
[oh my goodness ](https://www.reddit.com/r/vancouver/comments/12mjk6t/avocato/)
Me too! What happened?
And you catch more flies with shit than with either of those.
Well the british did rule us for nearly 300 years 😉, so yeah. I don't do conversation in english, so bit weak there. Thank you again.
I need a dragon like that for my yard. Sounds awesome
My stepdad would weld crazy stuff and someone asked him to make a gate for their driveway with a big dragon on it. He said it was the most fun he had in years when it comes to commissions.
There's a house in Toronto that has a huge black knight in the front yard.
I'm holding out for skeleton unicorn
Zombie gnomes and a gnome eating dragon are available.
We have a couple of those. One of them we set up chasing a human skeleton up a light pole.
Me three!

And maybe he could have a camera in the crystal ball, too...
Google it. It’s hysterical!
Somebody Google the release date for the original King Kong movie...and then put the skeleton in a gorilla suit. Or just get him a gorilla friend...
There was an AITA story about a household where for Halloween two skeletons were out front seated at a table playing chess.

Each day marked a new move!
That’s awesome as hell!!
Thank you for your kind thoughts ❤️
The spaceship crashed? I L❤️VE IT.
My DIL got a blanket throw that has the cat avocados all over it.
I kind of need a small one now. 😂
Yeah, us too, lol. Fun fact: the most celebrated holiday in the world is “Independence from the British”
I decided to see if I could find it via google and here this majestic creature is

https://gessococteau.com/pages/dragon#:~:text=In%20the%20verdant%20realm%20of,was%20steeped%20in%20medieval%20lore.
I’ve got one. It rocks.
You can get skeleton dragons (that are motion sensitive and will roar and snap when anyone gets close). I don't really have anywhere to store mine, so he lives in the living room and has various seasonal hats.
Our toddler calls them wienercorns 😩😭 it’s what happens when you grow up on a farm and most things have wieners.
I want one of those giant Roosters. Have it staring at his yard. You need a go fund me. lol
I have seen a skeleton horse - you could make a horn so it is a unicorn!
Wow, so awesome! Thanks!!
That dragon seems very Welsh!
OMG it's so cool I want one right now
TBH, I'm tempted to get one of each, if my cat will let me.
My skeleton also wears a different hat each week - it's a plain human skeleton though 😆
AITA for uninviting 25 family members to my wedding 6 weeks to show time? 
I have had this Halloween Wedding planned for two years. The venue I wanted has a wait list. All the sudden my mom and grandma decided the wedding was satanic and want me to make last minute changes. 

I told my mom and grandma a firm no. Two years my family has known about this and because I have told them know half my mom’s side thought they would be cute and say they aren’t coming in a random ass power struggle. 

I told them fine and canceled everyone invitations who complained or backed my mom or grandma on this. One of my sisters acted like she stepped out of brides maid duty so I replaced her. It was about 25 people that decided to act stupid at less than 6 week mark so I sent out uninvited invitation and I sent out new QR codes for those attending and the venue will check in by only those to let people in. 

My aunt (who was one of the uninvited) told me people are allowed to disagree with me and that doesn’t mean can pull an invitation from a wedding that they have made plans to attend. 

I told my aunt they had two years for complaints but saying you are not going at 6 weeks before my wedding is bullshit and everyone fucked around and found out I will not be bullied by my family over this. 
Welcome to /r/AmITheAsshole. Please view our [voting guide here](https://www.reddit.com/r/AmItheAsshole/wiki/faq#wiki_what.2019s_with_these_acronyms.3F_what_do_they_mean.3F), and remember to use **only one** judgement in your comment.

OP has offered the following explanation for why they think they might be the asshole:

 > I know people made travel plans for this wedding that I uninvited and probably put in vacation time for it.

Help keep the sub engaging!

#Don’t downvote assholes!

Do upvote interesting posts!

 [Click Here For Our Rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/AmItheAsshole/about/rules) and [Click Here For Our FAQ](https://www.reddit.com/r/AmItheAsshole/wiki/faq)

##Subreddit Announcements

Follow the link above to learn more

---

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose/?to=/r/AmItheAsshole) if you have any questions or concerns.*

*Contest mode is 1.5 hours long on this post.*
NTA, They already said they're not coming, so why are they complaining now?
NTA. Mom and gma decided to intentionally blow up your wedding. Then they rallied their little army to put pressure on you. I would wager a bet this isn't the first time you've had a run-in with them over them trying to control your life
NTA

> saying you are not going at 6 weeks before my wedding is bullshit and everyone fucked around and found out I will not be bullied by my family over this. 

Fuck, yeah.
NTA. Sounds like a blast. Which bride are you dressing as?
OP's spine grew 3 sizes that day.

Tell your aunt that you only want people at your wedding who fully support you and your new spouse. 

NTA
NTA. This is will a lit celebration! Congrats!
NTA saw in the comments you’re having a corpse bride wedding. That’s so sweet and endearing I don’t care about anyone’s beliefs anyone who can’t just let someone enjoy their damn corpse bride wedding shouldn’t be at the corpse bride wedding!
They are allowed to disagree with you. From the comfort of their own homes.

Telling someone their wedding 1) is satanic, and 2) needs to change is not "disagreement." It is a request that you alter your wedding to suit them, and you are perfectly within your rights to decline to spend your day with people judging you that hard.

Have a great time with the guests who aren't jerks.

NTA
[removed]
NTA. Finally someone who doesn't take shit and will go scorched earth for their beliefs. If only more people were like you instead of the doormats in this world.
NTA at all. It's a Halloween wedding. I'd find it weird if you didn't lean into that! 

On the real side. I didn't have a backbone and ended up bending to my family's will. They ruined my wedding. I'm so proud you aren't allowing anyone to dictate your happiness. I'm now NC with my family, but I wish I had the spine you did then. You won't regret uninviting them. It's worse when they're there complaining and making a show of it. You will have fun with those who want to be there and those who want to actually celebrate your happiness.
NTA. I’m 70 and, if you were my niece, I’d ask your advice for how to dress, go to the wedding and have fun! It is not my place to express an opinion about another’s event. If I was religious and scandalized, I’d send my regrets with a nice gift from your registry that did not offend my puritanical sensibilities.
NTA and congrats on having a lovely shiny spine

Your wedding so your choices of decor, venue etc. 

Anyone who wants to pull these kinds of shenanigans with 6 weeks til the Big Event after having had 2 whole years (total of about 104 weeks) to do this are bullies of the worst kind and you don't need people like that in your life. 

Halloween is based on Samhain, a celebration of the beloved dead. But way back when, the christian missionaries converted it (after being given strict instructions to do so by the Pope) to get more people to convert from paganism. There is nothing satanic about Halloween/Samhain or about haunted buildings so your mum and grandma are woefully mis-/un-educated on this.
NTA, my in-laws pulled shit like this when we were planning a destination wedding to the province that they all live in (groom & I live across the country) so we pulled the plug and had a small elopement ceremony with 2 witnesses instead. You do you mama! Also I wanna see this wedding dress ;)
My son and daughter-in-law had a Halloween wedding a few years ago. It was supposed to be on Halloween, but was postponed for a year due to Covid, so it was held on the 30th. The options of costumes was left up to the guests, and some came in costume and others changed into costumes after the ceremony. (It was held in a hotel and the guests stayed over.) Everyone had. Great time.
NTA: Halloween Weddings are awesome, good for you for standing your ground. If they can’t be mature about your dream wedding too friggen bad for them. 
Their loss….
NTA "My aunt (who was one of the uninvited) told me people are allowed to disagree with me and that doesn’t mean can pull an invitation from a wedding that they have made plans to attend."

They all said they weren't coming I'd take that as declining on your invitations so you acted accordingly. Why save 25 seats for people who told you they're not going to come in an attempt to bully you into having a wedding they'd prefer? I'd tell them "No no it works better this way, now I'll have plenty of room for the giant pentagram we plan to chalk onto the floor" LOL
NTA Your aunt may be right that people are allowed to disagree with you.  However, she's completely wrong in thinking that she or anyone else insisting you change your wedding deserve to keep their invitations. Good for you for not taking their crap and standing up for yourself and your dream wedding! It's your wedding! Do what makes you happy and cut the people who can't even be bothered to support you.

Congratulations on your wedding! A Halloween wedding sounds super fun and I wish you a drama free day!
>My aunt (who was one of the uninvited) told me people are allowed to disagree with me and that doesn’t mean can pull an invitation from a wedding that they have made plans to attend. 

“I disagree” NTA
NTA
Your wedding, your rules (up to a point of course)
NTA

>My aunt (who was one of the uninvited) told me people are allowed to disagree with me and that doesn’t mean can pull an invitation from a wedding that they have made plans to attend. 

And she's wrong. It's your wedding, you can pull any invitations you want, game over. They wanted to pull some drama just before the event when everything is at its most stressful and had the nerve to demand changes to an event they weren't paying for.

Religious entitlement is such a wild thing. Saying something is satanic doesn't make it satanic. They knew this was going to be a Halloween event for years. This was just some stupid power play to get their way thinking you'd cave because you'd be too stressed to fight back.

They're highly manipulative.
NTA...I went to a wedding on Halloween about 10 years ago...did I think it was different yep...but did I take what the bride said to heart and show up dressed like she wanted us all dressed...yep (FYI we were assigned teams and we had to dress in that team's theme my family got grotesque hospital) and man it was a great time!!!
I'd say NTA as long as you only uninvited people who threatened not to come. All you're really doing is calling their bluff.
NTA

Weddings are expensive. To pull a stunt at six weeks is just stupid and nasty. 

They said they're not going,  they're not going.
NTA

It's your wedding and your day. If they can't be civil or if they make problems that you should not need to be dealing with, then cut them. Like you said, they had 2 years to voice concerns.

If they don't like it, they shouldn't waste your time accommodating them
The thing that I don’t understand is that the certain family members are saying that this is satanic? Halloween is a pagan holiday, Samhain, a transition from one season to the next. No satanistic references lol. I’m not a religious person in any way, but jeepers creepers you should celebrate your day the way you want to. And good on you for having a backbone to tell the others just to piss off. Enjoy your wedding! And please accept a very happy congratulations on your upcoming nuptials from this internet stranger. May you both be happy!
NTA.  You should only have people at your wedding who support you and they don't.  So, no issue.
You are a badass! Wish I'd had your guts; I stood my ground and made no changes but let the (two) people having tantrums backtrack and attend rather than withdraw  their invitations. One of them showed up and overtook me as I was walking down the aisle and the other wore white. Drama queens/kings are going to have their drama, removing them from the situation sounds like the best response you could have. 

NTA
NTA

They all had ample time to bring this up and want to do a power struggle over your wedding when usually by now most things are either paid for or at least at a point where you have to pay part if the day doesn't go on like planned.
NTA they fucked around and found out! This is amazing! I love thissss
NTA, legit a dream of mine to attend a halloween wedding! My friend talked about it but her family thought it was tacky and talked her out of it. 10 years later she’s sad she listened to them cause she doesn’t even engage with them anymore (for knocking her parenting skills).
They uninvited themselves.  NTA.
Need more info:

Did all the people you uninvited approach you and complain about the venue? What did your bridesmaid not do to get cut out?
NTA. It's your wedding and you get to invite who you want.
NTA.  This is the way.   People who come here usually act like doormats and complain about what their families are doing to them (because they let them).  You are in control of your own wedding, not your family.
NTA. If they’re gonna bitch about it then why come?
She uninvited herself. NTA Good for you for not allowing all the bullshit! Have a wonderful wedding.
Many years ago, I got married on Halloween. The Monsignor who performed the wedding came to the reception with devil horns. He was also drunk during the ceremony. Great wedding. Marriage not so much.
lol. Gay here and my husband and I pulled an invitation to our wedding the night before. ITS YOUR WEDDING. Do what you want.
NTA. If they rescinded their RSVP, you are simply responding. 

I hope your wedding goes exactly how you want it!
If your mom, grandma, or anyone else had any “concerns” about the event’s theme, they had 730 days to bring it up respectfully. But to wait until the six-week mark to throw a tantrum? That’s not concern; that’s straight-up drama.

Now, let’s talk about your response because, frankly, you handled it like a pro. You set a boundary. You calmly said “no” to changing your entire vision to suit their whims, and you didn’t cave when they tried to rally a mini-rebellion. When people start playing the “We’re not coming!” card as some kind of power move, they have to be prepared for the consequences. Guess what? They “found out,” and now they’re mad because you called their bluff.

Your aunt’s comment about how people are “allowed to disagree” is missing the point. This isn’t about a difference of opinion. This is about respect. You made your plans clear from day one. If they disagree, they can quietly bow out or choose to participate like adults. But causing chaos at the last minute, then acting shocked when you withdraw their invitations? That’s not how any of this works.

So here’s the bottom line: It’s YOUR wedding, not a group project. If they couldn’t get on board with it, then it’s better they aren’t there. The people who truly support you will be at that venue with their QR codes in hand, ready to celebrate the spooky, fun, and unforgettable day you envisioned. And for those uninvited? Well, they can sit at home with their opinions and watch your event be the success it was always meant to be. ✨
The things that amuse me about this are:
1. After two years it's suddenly only just become satanic, it must be witchcraft!
2. The people that said they don't want to come are now offended that they're not allowed to come.

Your theme sounds amazing and I'm very impressed by your refusal to accept any nonsense.
YOU. ARE. MY. HERO.

  
Seriously - women / men / shes / hes / theys - THIS IS HOW YOU DO IT.    You don't putz around trying to figure out what to do.  They don't like it they don't have to come.
Nta

What a shiny spine! 

I wish you both the best ❤️
NTA. FAFO is a real thing. Kudos to you for standing your ground.
NTA. They said they weren't going, why do they care if they are no longer invited?
NTA remind your aunt that as she already declared that she isn't going she had no reason to be upset you've rescinded your invite since she won't be using it anyway.
NTA. I love you. Enjoy your drama free satanic wedding. 😉
NTA
They said they aren't coming to your "satanic ritual."  You uninvited them officially. I assume,  so you could free up the reservations for those who will support your wedding choices.  Now they're upset you accepted their own choice?
These people are not upset about not being at your wedding.  They are upset about not being at the wedding they hoped to convince you to have.
I don't know you, but you sound fucking awesome!!!! That wedding is going to be crazy cool, and I hope you all have a wonderful time! You can't help family can be stupid sometimes! Screw them!
Your shiny spine will look wonderful in your wedding outfit.

Enjoy your wedding and please update!!

NTA
NTA.  You are honoring their request not to participate in your wedding.

With appropriate emphasis and force.

They hath FA and they are now FO.

Have a fabulous wedding.
NTA. Have a great wedding.
updateme
NTA that sounded like Aunts attempt to make you feel bad. Nope y'all wanted to pull this close to the wedding this king you would scrabble and change it due to pressure nope. Congratulations op you'll be a beautiful and stress-free.
I'm damn near 50 and want to be you when I grow up. lol
NTA. People can disagree but they don’t need to berate you and side with those who want you to make changes six weeks out. Plus why would you want to pay for people to celebrate with you if they don’t want to be there?
NTA and good for you. They really thought that they could blackmail you by saying they wouldn't attend? You won't attend? Great! I have other people who would love to. Tell your aunt that they didn't "disagree" they said they wouldn't come, so you invited someone in their place. If they intended to come, I guess they shouldn't have said they weren't coming, right? I love when people like this get screwed by their own BS.

This is perfection, and I'm so proud of you for this. They waited until 6 Weeks before your wedding? 6 weeks and they started to make trouble? 6 weeks until your wedding and then decided to make you stressed out and upset? Hell, no. NTA and go enjoy your stress free wedding. Congratulations.
NTA
They didn’t only disagree with you they announced they weren’t coming. They canceled their plans to attend. So you rearranged things for 25 less people. Oh well 
NTA.   
  
They stuck their hands in the fire and are shocked when they got burnt in the form of you uninviting you. Honestly, I don't get your aunt's logic. They were the ones who sided with your mom and grandma yet are believe they still deserve to be invited? How dumb.

By the way, you've mentioned you are doing a light blue corpse bride but what about your significant other?
NTA - This is the kind of wedding I’d actually want to attend! It sounds fun.
NTA. Your wedding your choices.
As I am celebrating 16 years in halloween. It's going to be a blast.  We had trick or treating set up for kids at our reception, and as the hall was in a residential area and we had so much candy.. kids ended up trick or treating the reception. Good for you.  Hope it's the best
Why would you invite their side-eyed, quiet criticisms and fake behavior at what sounds to me like one of the most fun weddings ever?! NTA. Congrats and have a lovely, badass wedding day.
Ugh. Good for you, i love a backbone 

Hard NTA - congrats on your upcoming wedding!❤️
"My aunt (who was one of the uninvited) told me people are allowed to disagree with me and that doesn’t mean can pull an invitation from a wedding that they have made plans to attend."

She might have had a theoretical case for "detrimental reliance", but blew it on account of her repudiation attending, opening the door for you to make a chamge on her status.  
  
She got the FAFO treatment. NTA.
Have a wonderful wedding! 
NTA and good for you! Congrats, and have a wonderful time OP.
NTA. You can uninvite anyone you want. Your wedding sounds like it's going to be awesome. Have an amazing day :)
NTA. Your wedding sounds amazing!
NTA. Your wedding, your rules. Don’t let anyone else make you change it. They tried to shit in the bed and you made them sleep with it.
Congratulations OP on the wedding, the spooky celebrations, and the shiny spine! Would love to read an update after the wedding. I'm expecting ineffectual meltdowns from mom and her judgy judys.
NTA. Good for you. Your wedding is your day and people who think they should be considered above what you want are selfish.
Congratulations and I love the wedding theme!  Those that are complaining should not be there, it should be a day of happiness!  NTA.
NTA. Handled very fairly, in my opinion. Two years to say something and they bring it up now? Nah! As you said, FA&FO 🤷‍♀️ hope you have an amazing day ❤️
NTA.

Forreal though I LOVE how you refused to budge. Stressing out a bride 6 weeks before her wedding is unacceptable.
Your post made me smile. You are awesome. You do what many of us wish we could do.
I know this must be hard for you, but you are so cool for all of this. NTA
NTA! Please update with pictures!!
Look I don’t understand the whole Halloween thing. At all. It’s not me. But apparently you love it. And if the people I love want to celebrate their love while celebrating a holiday I don’t particularly like, who cares? Certainly not me. 

I don’t have to convert to satanism to put fake cobwebs in my hair, and I’ll probably need help figuring out how to dress for occasion, but I’m a grown adult with internet access so it’ll get done. 

What you should NOT have at your wedding are people who do not support you and your love. So un-invite away. NTA.
NTA I love you and I love your wedding theme and your amazing attitude. Miserable family members fucked around and found out. 

Happy wedding to you! Enjoy the best day ever with those people who are truly there to support and celebrate YOU!
NTA! Brilliant\_Peace9682.........YOU! ARE! MY! HERO!! Love it! Nobody can bully you! I need that kind of strength. Congrats on your upcoming nuptials and wishing you a long and happy loving life together and just wow!! You have guts, girl! Good for you!
You are my fucking hero. Hooray for boundaries!
2 fucking years and they start complaining 6 weeks prior. yep clear FAFO. NTA
NTA, eff the lot of them.
NTA.  Please come back after the wedding and update us.  Congratulations!
This wedding sounds like it's going to be a BLAST!!!! I'm sorry your family did what they did. I hope you are able to have the most amazing wedding ever with all the people who want to share your special day with you no matter the theme!!! Congratulations and I hope you have a wonderful life together!
NTA. You absolute f$#king hero. Enjoy your day celebrating with people who love you for who you truly are.
NTA! I love the true FAFO
NTA. They are bullies. You can't flip your hair, and expect the bride to change HER day, for them. It wouldn't be her day anymore.
NTA. You’re absolutely correct. Keep your strong spine.
NTA and that was a bad ass move too
🙌🏻🙌🏻🙌🏻🙌🏻 YES! 

NTA
NTA. Lots of Stupid Prizes handed out!
Tell your aunt you disagree with her.
Nta fafo. 🤷‍♀️ they weren't going to come anyways
NTA

Block them all.
That's great. Good for you, man. NTA- at all
NTA Halloween wedding sounds awesome … they did a stupid thing … won a stupid prize … they don’t get a say in what your wedding looks like
Your wedding on your terms. I love that for you! NTA. You didn't deserve their little attempt to stress you out so close to your wedding, and now you know for sure you'll only be surrounded by those who truly support you and love you and care for your happiness. 

Congratulations! I wish for many, many, many happy years of marriage for you!
That’s a hell of a shiny spine you got there. Congratulations on your upcoming wedding. It sounds like it will be a blast.
NTA
You didn't uninvite them, you accepted their notifications that they wouldn't be there/were stepping down
They don't get to pull the "I was just kidding" BS
Weddings are expensive and you only want people there who are going to support you, not those who want to try manipulating you
NTA I’m also having a Halloween wedding! My future MIL is very religious, I could never imagine her trying to pull something like this! She even agreed to wear black to match the wedding party! Your own mother and grandmother pulling support in such a stressful time! smdh, they’re a disgrace.
CONGRATS! On both the kickass Halloween wedding AND being a bad ass for standing up to your family. Not only are you NTA, you're a hero! Good for you dude.

My cousin had a Halloween wedding and it was AWESOME. Coolest wedding I've ever attended. She asked everyone in the invitation to wear 'red carpet' type costumes, as to not be tacky. Everyone understood the assignment. My husband & I were Morticia & Gomez, my parents were Aragorn & Arwen, her mom was a dark queen, lots of Victorian vampires & old mobsters. Truly tasteful but still dark & beautiful.

You do you! And don't ever apologize.
Ha. You reversed uno them! Well done. You’ve also shut down any future their way or the highway BS. Your wedding sounds amazing! Love the theme and what you’ll be wearing. Think we’re all a bit jelly and would love to come too, it sounds like so much fun. Honestly wedding days go really fast, you wont have time to notice who is or isn’t there so it’s best to only have people who are good vibes only. Enjoy yourself and congratulations 🥂
NTA. I told my mother when her side of the family started making crazy demands I don't negotiate with terrorists  and just uninvited them.
hahahaha no, I love this. So what if it’s not the traditional American or other culture wedding. 

I’m tired of people saying the wedding is for the guests.  A wedding is never for the guests!!!!! It’s for the bride and groom!!!!!!! 

Guests are people who love and support them. That’s it.
Bravo! And congratulations. It's refreshing to hear someone handling family lunacy with a sharp sword. I applaud you 👏💕
Did you pull an invitation from a wedding they had plans to attend, or did you only pull the invitation from those who said they no longer wanted to attend?
NTA. They fucked around and found out. The wedding is a celebration, regardless of what it may look like or where it is. 2 years advance notice is crazy. It makes no sense they complain now.
GOOD FOR YOU

nta
My parents were very religious old time people and I thought they would be appalled that their niece wedding was Halloween and guests were to wear costumes if they wanted. They went but I figured they wore regular clothes.  When my cousin showed me pictures of them in costumes I was impressed!  They said it was fun!!
Your aunt is correct that people are allowed to disagree, but what she did not realize is you have the same ability to give them consequences for those beliefs. 

FAFO is right! I hope you have a fantastic wedding!
NTA. They tried to give you an ultimatum and you called their bluff. They FAFO and now they're sorry, trying to gaslight you into taking the blame.

And your wedding sounds freaking awesome. Can I come?
NTA. I don’t understand why they thought they had the right to tell you to change your theme, especially with such short notice.
NTA

You're gonna come back and update us with all the details, right? Because this wedding sounds AMAZING! Congratulations on your upcoming nuptials!
Good on you. You’ve got your priorities straight and are setting (appropriate) boundaries like a boss. Absolutely NTA
Zero notes. FAFO. Brava and you are NTA.
NTA, LMAO that's awesome, Congrats on getting married!
I think I've fallen in love with you. All too often these stories end with people bending and not sticking to their guns, your willpower and determination is bomb af. You go.
NTA. And you will have an even better time without the grumbles present
>My aunt (who was one of the uninvited) told me people are allowed to disagree with me and that doesn’t mean can pull an invitation from a wedding that they have made plans to attend.

People aren't entitled to an invitation to any event, unless they're the ones paying for it. NTA
What’s their problem? You listened to them and did them the kindness of releasing the burden of going to an event they have decided is “satanic”. You never said they couldn’t disagree, just that they can’t go to your wedding, which they had told you they wasn’t going to attend anyway. So now they’re mad they can’t attend the thing they told you they wouldn’t attend? 

NTA. Swift and concise response. They can all be mad together whilst you and your loved ones have a blast at your wedding. Fucked around and found out indeed.
NTA
Fuck yeah, my bestie got married on Halloween and the whole wedding party dressed up! Have a blast!

NTA
NTA- This sounds like so much fun!  I would definitely go to a Halloween themed wedding. Guess 25 small minded people are going to miss out on a fantastic wedding. Invite some other fun friends instead.
The ONE time this would require a second thought is if any of them were paying for it and didn’t have advance notice of what it entailed. At that point they could still be in the clear to pull their financing (leaving you to do what you like but on your own budget) if they felt that strongly…but even if so, they had two years’ notice to object. Since that’s not detailed here I assume you and your future spouse were handling the financing already. 

Anyway, excellent job standing up for yourself and keeping them at bay!
NTA

They said they weren't going to come, you took them seriously and removed them from the guest list, it's their own dam fault for playing games.  
Good for you for sticking to your plan and I hope you have a wonderful event.
NTA, although I suspect you know that deep down.
I was MoH for my best friend at her Halloween wedding last year, we all had an absolute blast!
I hope your day goes smoothly and is everything yiu want it to be and more. 💜
Uhh, your aunt is nuts. You can ABSOLUTELY uninvite people for disagreeing with you.  In fact,  you can uninvite people for whatever reason you want to because it's your damn wedding. Screw what they think.  Your wedding sounds cool af to me. If they want to talk all the bs and cause you distress, then you should do what will make you happy 😊
If only everyone on reddit had a spine like yours instead of allowing relatives to take over and destroy their wedding.
In the words of Charlotte Dobre, "throw the whole thing away" as in anyone who doesn't support your big day. They've had 2 years, waiting this long to have this negative reaction is unacceptable. Family or not, it's your day. Don't let anyone ruin it.
lol my cousin had a Halloween wedding and our grandma wore a cat footie pajamas thing, and she was sooooo tickled the was wearing pajamas to a wedding, it was delightfully scandalous to her
As a 50 year old goth girl, I say Hell yeah!🖤🔥  I'm sure your mom knew before the 6 week mark about your plans.   I think you are going to find this wedding to be full of good energy and love from people that want to be there ..
Can I ask what about your dad? Is he going to be there.   I am glad you did the QR thing because I am sure ALOT of the uninvited are going to show up to make a scene.  
Have a great wedding and wish we could be there to support you 🖤🖤🖤🖤stay strong, 
Good job holding your personal boundaries 💙
u/Brilliant_Peace9682

OoOoOoOoOo NoOoOoOoOo!!!!!!      It’s the consequences of their actions!!!!!!

Don’t feel bad for them since they had already told you that they weren’t going to be attending your awesome sounding wedding

Updateme
You may not have handled this with grace and dignity, but you are NTA.

No one who believes your wedding is satanic should attend. It is only reasonable to exclude them. 

I am dying to know what exactly you mailed out indicating you were rescinding the invitation. Are you willing to share more?
NTA. family fucked around and found out like you said. their loss. 

please post pictures after your wedding if you are comfortable with that. I looooove halloween weddings that go all out!!! congrats to you and your fiancee!
NTA but now I want to see photos of this wedding once it happens!! It sounds amazing!
Ugh! Girl! THIS! THIS ENERGY?!! YES!!!!! LOVE TO SEE IT! Actually example of standing on business….. have fun at your wedding honey. Do what brings you peace and happiness… 

NTA
NAT. Congratulations on hitting the early puberty of your spine growth! I’m glad you bloomed early, unlike some of us who had to learn the hard way🤦🏼‍♀️
NTA Omg! I love you and your whole vibe. 

You saw haters and swatted them down like a f-ing QUEEN. 

Keep doing you, don’t change a thing! 

Chef’s kiss!!
I love it when people fuck around and find out! Then act surprised at the consequences! 😆
NTA. Good for you OP. This is awesome. They really fucked around and found out in some weird family power struggle? Don’t back down now because this sets the tone for the future too
NTA sounds like its going to be awesome - if you can, share pics after the event (don't dox yourself though).

If the haters are gonna hate, then they can hate somewhere else.

You need a couple to be totally in charcter as Brad & Janet to round things oiut.
NTA, I say go NC with those 25 family members.
NTA

My heroine! A champion Anti-bully. I guess they FAFO. 

If, down the road, you have another announcement, about say pregnancy, you can tell everyone, "If anyone has any negative criticisms of names we pick, our child rearing philosophy, not doing a gender reveal, who is in the room at birth, or who gets to meet our child first, please remember how we dealt with complaints about our wedding date. Consequences will be more severe, due to hormones."
“Fucked around and found out” 🙌🏽🙌🏽🙌🏽

Hope you have a fabulous day!! NTA
Can I be family? This sounds like a party !
Congratulations, OP.
NTA! They FAFO and can live with it
Congratulations on your wedding and saving money
There is a difference between folk insisting you change your own wedding, and your aunt saying is was them disagreeing.

They wanted you to change your wedding!!  Eh, big fucking naw.

And go you for having the flaps to cancel invites, fuck em.

Have a spooky ookie time!
[You must have dropped this](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Crown_jewels#/media/File:Crown_Jewels_of_Austria.jpg)
NTA - I fecking love this FAFO power move.  And I feel that your wedding may go a lot more smoothly without the uninvited comments.  

Your wedding sounds awesome, I hope you and your partner have the best day and live your best lives 🤘
Because they were bluffing to get their way and now they’re all *shocked pikachu face* that op said “ok then don’t come.” It’s honestly fucking hilarious. Maybe they’ll learn not to say shit they don’t mean.
That's an easy one to answer. It transformed from "not coming by their choice" to "not coming because they got kicked out due to bad behavior".

When they were still invited, they could pretend being a no-show was a "moral victory" with their little boycott. (Instead of just being complete bad manners.)

When their invites were stripped, it took away their fig-leaf. Especially with anyone that knows the whole story.

They're complaining because they're hoping that being loud enough about being uninvited will get people to overlook *why* they were uninvited in the first place.

They're probably also complaining because being uninvited totally defeated the purpose of their boycott. It's an element of sour grapes because it doesn't matter what they want anymore.
So much this!!!

You are just following up based on them saying they won't be coming.  Why are they acting all shocked now?!?
Because they were trying to be manipulative and it backfired.
I'm willing to give some benefit of the doubt here: 

Mom and Grandma said they weren't coming - OP uninvited them instead of giving in - probably huge uproar but screw them.  
Aunt said "maybe they've got a point" or "do you really want to uninvite your mother and grandmother over this?" without going straight for the "scratch this or I'm out" option - OP was tired of the BS and just uninvited her too.

I'm fully on OPs side here, waiting this long then setting an ultimatum (in addition to this being stupid satanic panic crap, which just makes it even more ridiculous), they've had it coming. Just some potential overinterpretation going on.
Happy cake day! 🍰
Total bully antics. They FAFO, I love this for OP.
Yeah, the flying monkeys pooped the bed.
>Fuck, yeah.

right? this is the kind of assertiveness I want to see more of when people are dealing with unreasonable family members 
NTA. Fuck yes. It's YOUR wedding!!!!  <slow clapping in background>
This is a whole mood and I am HERE for it! 😁
honestly I'm sure the last thing OP needed was MORE stress 6 weeks before their wedding.  Good on them for not fucking around and just rescinding invites!  it'll be the best party ever!
A light blue corpse bride dress and then I’m gonna have light blue hair. 
I had a Halloween wedding, the Hallowedding as we called it. The invites had a pic of a traditional white tiered cake, but the little topper was Frankenstein and His Bride. We had a box of masks if people really didnt want to dress up. DJ dressed like Wolfman Jack and we had a cauldron of spiked punch with dry ice so it smoked. It was a blast and we’re still married 20 yrs later.
OHH....can I take one of the empty spots if I come a Gomez Addams (Wednesday series version)

And NTA...your wedding...your call.
And that reasoning is why my brother and his family lost their invitation to our wedding the day before! 
3 shades shinier
FAFO Hall of Fame post right here
Or their dumbass family knew OP didn’t play around and decided to find out anyway.
NTA.

If they’re not going anyway, why do they care if you rescinded their invitations?

If they planned to go and complain the whole time, of course they should be uninvited. It’s your day, and they have no right to ruin it because they don’t like the theme.

It’s your wedding, and their opinion is unimportant.
I hadn’t seen that comment. I hate weddings, but this one sounds like a blast!
This wedding sounds like it will be so much fun and unique. Why do what pretty much everyone else is doing when you can be unique?
> Telling someone their wedding 1) is satanic

Given the context, it is also meant as immoral/wrong - and a negative judgment on the OP.
Yup and can you imagine how ugly they could get and make her whole party miserable if they did go after all their complaining and control didn't work? Nope. Better they all stay far away from the magnificent festivities.
Excellent comment! I’m so with you on this.
I'm sorry your wedding day wasn't as special as you deserved it to be. How did your family ruin it?
Agree completely.  I'm 68.
My parents were married on Halloween 55  years ago this year. It upsets me when people say it's an evil day because it was such a a fun anniversary day for them.
I am getting married on halloween in 2 years time, I'm so excited to see what the guests do! I hope plenty lean into it
Exactly!  They weren't disagreeing they were insisting on changes.
She's really downplaying what she did saying it was a simple disagreement... what she actually did was tried to stage a coup of somebody else's wedding at the 6 week mark. Which is just bananas (the event location was part of the theme...did they expect her to change venues?! Like, wtf?).   That was not a disagreement,  that was an act of force, and a pretty logistically ridiculous one,  at that.
They can disagree, granted...but they cannot say "I don't like how you're doing it, do it my way.'

Their little feelings are hurt because she told them "Nope, not happening..."
Plus they told her they weren’t attending so she wasn’t pulling from anyone who stated they planned to attend.  Don’t lie to get your way. It’s that simple.
For people who think this way... Anything not overly Christian is Satanic....further when we were in the military I found there is a huge not small group of people who some how came to the conclusion that Halloween was Satan's birthday, so that celebrating Halloween is celebrating Satan... Ina funny side note I helped throw a Sweeny Todd themed wedding ( complete with straight razor as the cake topper) and it wasn't anywhere near Halloween.
Many Christians view paganism as satanic
For many Christians, anything that doesn’t honor “The One True God” is satanic. This includes secular and non-religious things.
Yeah I grew up Christian and wasn't allowed to celebrate Halloween for religious reasons, also wasn't allowed to read Harry Potter (bullet dodged tbh) and my parents were generally not that keen on any media that involved magic/witchcraft (Although CS Lewis was totally fine)

 (I also found out it was in part as when my parents were newly married they lived in the US for a few years and it was around the time there was the posioning trick or treaters panic going around)
Christians will say anything is satanic. It just means they don't like it.
Many fundamentalist Christian religious lunatics believe that pagan gods were *real entities* (because of course they believe in all kinds of supernatural bullshit); they just believe they were *demons* *deceiving their worshipers*. (This is distinct from a more mainstream Christian idea, which I believe is that pagan gods were completely imaginary.) So anything that smacks of pagan beliefs is ipso facto Satanism according to fundies. Never mind that every major "Christian" holiday (which they all celebrate, except for a few really extreme groups like Jehovah's Witnesses) is just a pagan holiday with a thin coat of new paint... maybe they all worship Satan without realizing it (he's certainly all some of them talk about).
Plus the Catholics appropriated it to All Hallow’s Eve so you could argue it’s a Christian holiday!!
How likely do you think it is that people complaining a Halloween wedding is Satanic know anything at all about Halloween's backstory? Or care?
It was mainly over uninviting my mom and grandma the family saw it as disrespectful or something like the. The venue is a historical haunted location that does weddings. 
Or uninvite!
Agree, this post was a breath of fresh air compared to many of the others here.
^^THIS!!
The only ones who didn't handle things with grace and dignity were her lame family members. She was nothing but graceful and, most importantly, dignified - especially to herself and her fiancé.
Not just said "ok then" but actually formally uninvited them and told security not to let them enter.  They fucked around and found out **HARD** and now they have to miss out on what is hopefully a once-ever event.
They learned the hard way the basic rule of never bluff something you won’t fully follow through on if necessary. NTA.
OP actually took it a step further than "okay then, don't come," he said "okay then, you're no longer allowed to come." The first implies they have a choice to come, the second says they can't come. Love it.
And like, why would you be so dumb as to hold a spot for someone who said ‘they aren’t coming’? You have to have final headcounts for food and such…it’s logistically the only sane thing to do.
thank you <3
Yeah, there’s a point in many peoples lives where they teach their parents a lesson about who is and isn’t in charge. Parents push their agendas until they are pushed back. It’s hard to drop being a parent after 20 years, that’s why the pup has gotta bite back eventually.
Ewww!
I love how the aunt is saying "how dare you disinvite me from a wedding I planned on going to" when she's responding to her literally saying "I won't go".

So the bride said okay and gave her invitation to somebody who wanted to go. 

Fuck around and find out.
 Congratulations on your upcoming marriage! Let them boo hoo about not being there. You're right, the fucked around and found out the hard way. They won the prize of being uninvited. Enjoy your epic Halloween (best day of the year in my opinion) wedding! 

Are your guests dressing in costume as well? Either way, I hope y'all have a wonderful and fun day!
Am I reading it right that they threatened not to come and then got offended when you uninvited them? As in they were playing some petty bluff to get their way and actually had no intention of not going til you uninvited them? Because that’s fucking hilarious
I would LOVE to go to this wedding! I don't see how anyone could complain about this.

By the way I'm pushing 60, so it's not an "older generation" thing.
Love it! Can I come? Please? I'll be your new auntie!
Corpse Bride!!! That is so metal! Will they be playing a Ghost song as you walk down the aisle?

And of course, congratulations on your upcoming nuptials! All the best from a Reddit random!

Edited for grammar
Love this!!! Congrats and definitely NTA!!!
We're your family now.
As an advocate for Halloween and anything spooky- That sounds amazing!!! Hope you have the happiest and best day ever!!!
Very cool
Sounds cool.  Will dinner be holiday  theme as well?
NTA.    Good for you.
If you're comfortable I'd love to see photos! Sounds awesome.  Congrats.
i loved my wedding AND i’m SO jealous you get to have the the halloween wedding dream! i wanted ours on halloween but the date was booked already and i wasn’t willing to wait another year 🤪 sucks for your fam, but it shows how tasteless they are! i hope you have the best one of the best nights of the year! SO excited for you! go be iconic and they can cry they missed out on an epic event
This is the kind of wedding I would love to attend!
It seems awesome.

NTA by the way, it's nice to see someone standing up for the important events in their life's
Extremely creepy and also enchanting...I hope the day is as you and your soon-to-be spouse anticipate, and everything is wonderful as you start your lives together! Mazel tov!
Oh my gosh my cousin would literally kill to be there, she LOVES the Corpse Bride!
I can't believe your family op. I want a spooky wedding also and my parents give full support (mind you halloween is their fav holiday) we make a yearly haunted house out of our garage but either way if my extended family comes with this bs I would pull the same thing you did NTA go have fun
Nice! Congrats on the upcoming nuptials
I love that film, and think it’s a great wedding idea. I hope you have an amazing day!
My aunt got married on Halloween with everyone in costume and the local news came out and did a little video segment (this was more than thirty years ago so a bit more unusual then). Good on ya for not putting up with a bunch of nonsense.
Reading this AITA to my coworker, then saw that you're doing Corpse Bride with the dyed hair. She went, she is committed! I said, just like her marriage! All the best to you and your partner. Sounds like a blast.
That sounds really fucking cool. Do you think you might post photos? I would seriously love to see it. 

Also, obviously NTA. They can keep their negativity out of your wedding. Good for you for standing up for yourself!
Sounds amazing, and I bet it’ll be a super fun wedding. Congratulations. You did the right thing. NTA.
We did the Corpse Bride vows at our wedding, still one of my favorite parts.
Always wanted a Halloween wedding,  sounds like it will be way more fun without having to deal with Satanic panic.  NTA.
wow sounds amazing. Wish I were going! They f around and found out. Too bad!
I don't know if you would feel comfortable with this but it would be great to see a photo of all your costumes. Headless would be great, it being Halloween for privacy.
r/ohnoconsequences great job OP and congrats!!!
Husband and I had a gothic wedding. 
The ONLY complaint that was given was a joke of “oh of course you two get married when it rains”. 

Your wedding sounds awesome, and congrats!  
You only need people there who support you.
That’s amazing, my wife and I joke our second wedding is going to be a Halloween party like yours
How fun 

Sorry your family sucks and are going to miss a fantastic wedding.  Their loss
Ooh, that’s sounds fantastic!! I hope your wedding is the “bomb” kudos to you!!!
Outstanding! My daughter would love this and I would be right there celebrating her. Your family deserve the disinvite. Enjoy your big day.
r/ohnoconsequences 

Congratulations on your marriage! Hope you have a kick ass celebration!
Sounds like fun! Good on you for upholding your boundaries
I love how the event is like "no problem, we'll run the QR protocol.  Not our first rodeo."
NTA OP and your wedding theme your way. I cannot believe they want to run your wedding their way! Stand your ground OP and don't feel guilty about this. 


Because if you bend backwards to them, that will not end just at the wedding. What next in the next few years? You and husband having a hypothetical future baby and they demand you hold a gender reveal party when you don't want one? Or 10 or 12 years from now, the same people demand that you don't hold a Halloween theme wedding renewal ceremony or they ask you to not let your hypothetical future child have a birthday theme of their choice? Those people have shown how much they don't respect you 


Congrats on the wedding and btw beautiful choice on the light blue hair. You are gonna make an amazing bride! 
This sounds like SO much fun! Anybody stuffy enough to call this Satanic deserves to miss out on the blast that your wedding will be!

Congratulations and best wishes for a long and happy marriage!
I really hope you post pictures. That sounds awesome. I wanted a Halloween wedding but due to something involving a guest it was moved to June which I was disappointed about BUT I lost my cousin and her husband (that September) in a horrific accident so now I’m grateful for moving it. I hope you have an awesome wedding. It already sounds amazing
Omg that sounds like a blast...I don't know you and I so wanna come. Lol. I hope it's everything you hoped for and more. Fuck everyone that didn't support you. Enjoy your night!!!
It sounds really awesome!! I’m sure it would be fun. Congratulations.
I also had a “corpse bride” themed Halloween elopement.i got my hair coloured Emily’s colour of blue but my wedding dress had black fake blood on it.I love when people celebrate their love during spooky season! Good luck on your wedding day and may it be everything you’ve ever dreamt of! 🧡🖤🧡
This sounds utterly delightful. Have a wonderful wedding and congrats! 

Also NTA. Fuck the haters. When will people get it in their heads that a wedding is about the bride and groom. That’s it. Everyone else other than the officiant is literally optional. It’s not about them. They don’t get to dictate how someone else gets married.
Sally would have been a great costume to wear, and your fiancé Jack. I really want to know what music you’ll walk down the aisle to.
I bet their decision to FAFO will *haunt* them forever.
We’re gonna need pix from this crazy cool wedding. NTA. I’ve been to a wedding on New Years Eve. I’ve been to a BYO Instrument wedding where everyone joined the band at some point. But your wedding sounds gas.
Congratulations on your upcoming nuptials: love the attitude you have about this. I was totally annoyed for you that they would stage a protest and then get upset that you took it seriously and uninvited them. Besides, who the actual fuck thinks they get a say in someone else's wedding when they are not paying for it?
I’m soooo jealous!  If I were to do it over again, it would be a Halloween wedding.
Congratulations on both your marriage and your shiny spine.
NTA. It is so refreshing to see a bride to be stand up to her family and their bs. Continue to stand firm because like you said they had two whole years to give their input -not that it would matter since it’s your wedding anyway. I hope your fiance is fully supportive with this and that the two of you will have each others’ backs.
That sounds fucking sick. They're probably envious because their weddings weren't this cool. I know I am. NTA.
Soooo u have extra space now? Can I come? 
A colleague of mine had a Halloween wedding. She had a beautiful black gothic dress. Not my jam, personally, but she loved it, and that’s all that matters. Go have the wedding of your dreams! If people think a Halloween wedding is “Satanic” then they need to read the bible a bit more closely. I don’t recall anything stating satanic practices pertaining to wedding dates.
OMG! 😱😱 That sounds amazing!!! Is your groom to be going to be Victor? Also what's the dress code for the bridal party and guests? NGL I definitely want to see photos 😂😂

Onto your post, yes people can disagree with you but that doesn't mean they actually get a say in how the wedding happens. Especially not 6 weeks from go time. Their choices are to either attend the wedding and make the best of it, or if they are so displeased with how the event is happening, to not attend at all.

They chose to do the second and you just made sure they couldn't just decide to show up unannounced on the day. I'm just sorry that you might still have the bill to pay for 25 ungrateful people who couldn't be happy for you.

NTA
It sounds awesome 💙💙💙
Congrats on your wedding, hope you'll have a great day!
NTA your aunt+ rest said they're not coming so you only confirmed it officially.  If they lied well FAFO applies
NTA

Your wedding sounds so fun and unique, don't let the grumpies ruin it!
One of my friends had a Tim Burton-themed Bachelorette party.  She came as The Corpse Bride.  It's a wonderful idea.
That sounds fucking incredible. You're going to have an amazing wedding without all these entitled idiots ruining it. 
Sounds goth af, love it
That sounds amazing!
What happened?
I'm needing details on this story....please.
> If they’re not going anyway, why do they care if you rescinded their invitations?

Exactly. Extended family was like, "do what mom and grandma want, or we won't come", and OP was like, "Yes."
What’s a corpse bride wedding?
You’re right. If they came, they’d probably spend the whole time trying to undermine the bride and groom.
61 checking in, and I'd give my eye teeth for an invite to a Halloween wedding.
Happy early anniversary to them for this year!!!!
May they always feel abundant love and happiness!!!!

I love Samhain/Halloween and none of my nearest and dearest would be surprised if I decided to get married then myself.
Halloween is nearly as popular now as Christas according to retail spending. We married on our meeting anniversary which happened to be my spouse's grandparents wedding anniversary which was two weeks before Halloween. We were married in an arboretum so at least the leaves were beautiful. 


Good luck with your wedding and marriage! 🎃
And people who throw around the word "Satanic!" in protest are prone to making a scene. If they came, I'd expect things like ruining decorations, insulting speeches, public prayer etc. She's much better off without them.
Yeah,  that wasn't a disagreement, that was an attempted hostile takeover of somebody else's wedding, lol. When you fail at a government coup, you don't get to go on working in the government.  Grams greatly overestimated the power she had (or even the basic logistical feasibility of entirely changing the theme,  which included the haunted venue, at the 6 week mark... that's a crazy ask, with or without satan) in this situation,  and she pulled the wrong card for that play because it is all to easy to take her at her word.

NTA, and also my hero.
Yup, and people confuse Satan with Lucifer. 

If Satan has a birthday, who are their parents? 

As for the Sweeney Todd wedding, what type of meat did you serve? }]
Sooo…..a costume wedding at a haunted mansion??  I wanna come!!  I bring good presents too (usually Visa gift cards).
They do not get to organize a boycott and then cry when you remove them from the headcount. If they didn’t intend to follow through, they shouldn’t have opened their mouths. 
Honestly, I'm sorry.  You're handling it perfectly, but it still must be so stressful and painful during what should be a joyful time.
Your wedding sounds amazing! Forget those who don’t want to truly celebrate your day! Enjoy your day without the stress! 🎉
Did they all approach you and talk to you about how you found it disrespectful?

What did the bridesmaid not do?
Your wedding sounds super fun
I want to go your wedding!! It sound so fun! I can pretend to your sister 😄!
Absolutely!
Which is good because they would have sat and complained about it the whole time and ruined the vibe.
Agreed. It was fine if they all didn't care for the wedding theme. It was fine to open their mouths about it, or rally for support. So she did them a favor, no? No need to sully themselves at a Satanic wedding,  lol.
"People are allowed to disagree!" My wedding invite is not a right.
I had a distant cousin that chose to get married on Halloween under a blood moon. I was in college and not close enough with them to come back for it, but I heard it was super pretty and that’s from the people that are super religious and thought it was weird. They apparently had fairy lights in the trees and some lights down the sides of the aisle
My gf's cousin had a close-to-Halloween costume party wedding. His beloved grandmother was upset about it, saying they were making a mockery of marriage. 

Her sons talked to her and come wedding day, here's very Catholic Nana cruising down the aisle using her walker, dressed as a nun.

Everyone lost it, and agreed the only way her costume could have been better would have been for her to carry a ruler.
"But, but, you can't uninvite me! I wanted to be the one to uninvite myself!"
Play stupid games win stupid prizes.
No saying boo
My parents had a costume wedding. Got a great shot from the back of the chapel w/ tin tin, the Addams family, Frankenstein, etc in the pews
It's HALLOWEEN...they are SUPPOSED to go BOO!!!    Who?
It wasn't even that . Op just took the AHS at their word period.
My husband had a medieval pagan handfasting on Halloween 26 yrs ago next month.  My family all lived out of state and could not make it.
Yup. Sounds like they wanted OP to make a bunch of changes so the wedding wouldn't be considered 'satanic' and got offended when OP refused to make last minute changes. Then they went surprised pikachu face when OP called their bluff of not attending. What kind of control scheme/power play did they think they were going to pull off here? 

It's not their wedding. Unless they're footing the entire bill they have no say in what goes. Also, incredibly disrespectful and inconsiderate of them to want OP to make changes when the event is only a few weeks away. Wedding shit is booked and planned so far in advance, you can't just wave around ridiculous demands and expect people to accommodate them on such short notice. Asking someone to change venue (oh no spooooky haunted satanic mansion is a no no!), I assume decorations (cause Halloween themed = devil worship) and coordinating with vendors, catering etc when there's less than 6 weeks to go? Absolutely unreasonable and they're entitled turds for demanding it.

Super satisfying to read about OP's shiny adamantium spine, wish more people would be that assertive when it comes to dealing with family behaving shittily and the flying monkeys that come with said shitty family members.
Yep, and the best part is the aunt:

>My aunt (who was one of the uninvited) told me people are allowed to disagree with me and that doesn’t mean can pull an invitation from a wedding that they have made plans to attend. 

Petty behaviour by threatening not to come is allowed, because that's what this aunt did, but revoking invitations is obviously not allowed. Hilarious woman, this aunt.
That's a real "trick or treat" move !
This. Right. Here. The audacity of people.
Well they got exactly what they deserved. Maybe they can gather and magically pray the 😈 away !!
Fucked around and found out lol I’m laughing my ass off
Yep, I'm 68 and this sounds like a lot of fun.
Yeah, I'm in my 60s and wanted to be "The Blood Spattered Bride" but my husband was not into horror movies
I loathe this mentality of older generation bs, personally. It made more sense to me, as a millennial, when my grandparents were the older generation. They went through the great depression as children, served in or were teens/adults during WW2, etc. Sure, most of the Old, old people went through WW2 as Children, or just born! If you're not even 60, you were born during the late 60s maybe? That's the hippie era. We had hippies, then glam and punk rockers then goths, metal. KISS was formed in the early 70s ffs! The originals of the alt groups we know and love were formed by people who are past middle age, pushing towards retirement or already there. I feel like that's just a piss poor excuse by now! I was a budding goth in the late 90s and still know there's Elder Goths to look up to, rocking shit in old age beautifully with no care given. Those are my role models, and I'm almost 40. 

This wedding sounds freaking awesome!
My bestie and I are 56 and 58 and we would totally come in costume.
Yep, me too and I would love it
I'm 61. Halloween isn't usually my cup of tea but I would like to see a pale blue bride!
65 here and I  would happily go!
Yeah, I'm 64.  I'd love to go to this wedding, too because I find it awesome and fun.  I love Halloween as well.  I don't see anything wrong with that.  Must be those religious fanatics. \*shrug\*
I'm 74 and I'd happily attend!
Yes but we are gen x and awesome!
I’m about half your age and I wouldn’t be there.  So you are right. This has nothing to do with age. 

But I agree with OP, they knew about this for 2 years. If they had a terrible problem with it, they shouldn’t have agreed to come in the first place.
Me too!  63 here and I have purple hair too! Clutch your pearls… also have tattoos! 😯
Me too lol
Halloween is honestly not my favorite holiday because as a little kid I had too many people jump-scare me in scary wolf masks and what not. I don't mind the cute and sometimes really impressive dressing up, just not into the scary stuff. But that's the thing... it's not my wedding. I don't have to like it. I just need to be there for someone I love who is having a huge milestone in their life and be happy for them. It's wild how parents and even relatives or friends feel so entitled when it comes to weddings. Like people, it's not about you, it's literally about the couple. 
Right? So so satisfying to see an OP who has no trouble laying down the law with belligerent relatives.

I hate attending weddings but OP's bash sounds like it'll be awesome. Hope they'll consider posting pics down the road, what they've described is really interesting. I didn't even know there were haunted places that host weddings.
Perhaps they were upset about someone named u/KringlebertFistybuns performing the ceremony 🤣 (can't tell from their user history if this ended up occuring, but it would be funny if that was the reason).
Right? Don’t leave us hanging!
Movie by Tim burton called Corpse Bride https://m.imdb.com/title/tt0121164/
Yes, at least the bride won't be dealing with her terrible family members trying to bully her during her own wedding.
My mother was always a fan of the macabre and liked skeletons and dark things. She loved spiders and had them as pets.  After their Halloween wedding I was born in the 13th month, on Friday the 13th, which was also a full moon. I tell people I was born to be a witch. Lol
Lol I don't remember... But my friend who did Sweeny Todd themed Christmas did in fact do meat pastys for Christmas dinner ( her tree was covered in straight razors that had red wax dripping on the blades ( safety and esthetic reasons) - different family.
If dinner doesn't include meat pie I don't even care about the rest of it.
The way I see it is... OP has 25 free spaces... I mean, am I wrong? 


*Dusts off her old goth getup*
I'm not a big costume person, but this wedding sounds super fun.

And I'm the auntie that makes all the nieces and nephews quilts for their wedding gift.
Me too.  I'm old I have ghosts of my own I'll bring
Count me in. This sounds like more fun than a traditional wedding ceremony and reception.
I’ve had a pretty dull Halloween the past few years! I’d love to go to a Halloween themed wedding! I have very pale skin, a black dress, and red ankle boots so I’d fit right in as a vampire! 

I’m also a pretty good cook/baker if you need me to bring something!
She huffed said if our mom is uninvited I’m not coming. I was like ok. Don’t come. 
Exactly.

I let out a pleasant gasp as it dawned on me that the only people in attendance are people who *want* to be there.

Fucking magical great time.
Yes. I love that she yanked the rug out from underneath their bullshit 
Idk, I might have dressed them as ghosts so their moaning just seemed to be part of the spooky ambiance lol
My cousin did this on Halloween over 30 years ago. I happened to be flying to LA that day anyway for a medical conference so got to attend. Sadly I could not take the costume I wanted so I just went in scrubs as a surgeon but it was SO GREAT and tons of fun.
I'm in my 50s and grew up with a diverse group of friends whose families were active participants in their religions. Catholics, Lutherans, Jews, Protestants, Baptists, Hindu, etcetera, etcetera. Never, ever, was a friend prohibited to participate in Halloween festivities.

It truly blows my flippin mind how the religious fringe have managed to dominate ALL the conversations with fear-mongering and ridiculous conspiracy theories these days.
That sounds like the perfect spooky fairy tale!
I have close friends who got married on Halloween a few years ago; some came in costume, some came in regular dressy wedding attire - and for some of us who almost never dress up, it kind of was a costume - and everyone had a great time!
The only reason I didn’t get married on Halloween was because it was a Sunday that year and family logistics needed Saturday. (We needed multiple young healthy people to transport multiple ancient ones who didn’t drive.)

But we lit our aisle with carved jack o lanterns and the table assignment “cards” were tiny pumpkins. 

And this was a really long time ago, kids, I had to drive to five stores before I had enough tiny pumpkins.
Had friends who got married on Halloween. When they got to the reception after pictures, they had changed into "Dead Bride & Groom" costumes and the reception dinner was hosted by a murder mystery company.
It. Kicked. Ass...oh! And btw, one of the bridesmaids did it
We wanted to get married on Halloween, but figured it was probably tempting fate too much - look at my last name if you're confused.
Are they still married?
I didn't get married on Halloween, but I was married in October of 2014.  I wore an orange dress.  (Orange is my favorite color.)
I'm glad she went, and her costume sounds epic!
Nana wins the day!
this is the best character arc I have ever seen
Filthy mouths and bad attitudes.
Go Nana.
Okay you win 🤣
Can we make "unvitations" a regular thing? 
Indeed… tell the uninvited that you’d be happy to have a party with them to celebrate maybe around Thanksgiving or the winter holidays… they’ll be hosting of course.
"Will you ____, have this man from this day forward to be your wedded husband, to live together in the sacred state of matrimony?"

"I boo"
Boo who?
First dance should be the song Boo Thang.
It’s satanic!
Ppl are so weird. I had a KID tell my family and I that we were going to HELL bc we dressed up for Halloween. It was the 90s!!  And it’s only gotten Worse.
Awarded just for the "shiny adamantium spine" honestly.
Well said! 👏👏
I just got married and my SIL ended up dropping out as a bridesmaid because she failed to find an appropriate dress (the requirements were literally that it had to be long and purple and she somehow found two dresses that didn't fit those TWO criteria). If half of my family wanted me to make GIANT changes 6 weeks out, I would've uninvited them, too. The only reason my SIL wasn't completely uninvited was she's my husband's sister and he wanted her there.
Did you just manage to slip in references to Firefly, X-Men, aaand the Wizard of Oz in one paragraph?!

(Please have been on purpose, please have been on purpose! )
So freaking satisfying lol
The lack of self awareness is astounding lol
Absolutely right, people are allowed to disagree with you - and YOU are allowed to uninvite them from your wedding, because who needs that sort of drama llama BS on their big day?

Have an amazing wedding with the people who are happy to turn up!
It gets even better when you think about it. What if OP acquiesced and rescheduled it from the clearly satanic day (/s)? What happens to her plans then? She screws herself either way.
I’m I’m 72 and have been to one Halloween themed wedding and it was such a blast. I would love to go to another one congratulations on your upcoming nuptials and kudos for kicking out the haters.
72 here, and I’m with you. Especially if we get to wear costumes!
Me too! Tell me it’s in Houston, I wanna come!!
Hey, I'm 70 and I'd love it. Others in the 60's support their theme too. It's not a matter of age but attitude.
I was born in the early 60s and I was a punk rocker back in the day.

My niece had a Halloween wedding recently (well, fewer than 10 years ago) and I went in costume as Siouxsie (as in The Banshees).

It isn't the "older generation."  It's the rise of evangelicalism and their continuing Satanic Panics.  They used to demonize us as well, starting by claiming AIDS, which was killing so many of us, was God's punishment for queerness.

So yeah, exactly! Don't blame us, we were their targets, too.
74 here — in college in the 60s. I think it sounds amazing!
Considering her sister was one of the complainers, it's not about age. I am 68 and would take off work to prepare to be a guest.
Most of my friends (born mid 60s) got weirdly traditional, prudish, and judgemental after having kids.
My mom turns 80 this month and she would love a Halloween wedding. She'd absolutely go in costume. I'm 58 and I would, too.
I wouldn't say older generation but more hard right religious view
That we are!
Me three!
This is where it’s at. We don’t “do” Halloween as a family because I don’t like being scared and I’m not really on board with trick or treat tbh. My kids also don’t like spooky so aren’t at all bothered. But if my friend/family member was having a costume wedding, I’d be there in my best dress-up outfit to support them. 

To add: we are quite happy for other people to enjoy Halloween, it’s just not for us.
Thanks
You are full of magick!!!!

I wonder if there was anything else going on astrologically - blue moon, super moon, eclipse etc. 

You and your family sound like my kind of people!!!!
Do you have that huge quilting machine? I thought people usually quilted by hand but I saw the big huge white machine at this lady’s house one time.
That was my aunt! But she just made them, not for weddings. They were all themed to our personalities. All sizes. 30 years later, I still have mine. It's falling apart at the seams in some places, but I still have it. When she died, I took another one she had just made for the hell of it.
oh they hate it when you call their bluff
She’s only kicking up a stink because she’s lost the power over this, it’s fine when it’s her decision, but not when you’re willingly in agreement.
Tbh it doesn't even matter. Anyone in these comments not immediately saying nta has never planned a wedding. 

I did the majority of planning for ours and it insanely stressful and I was so exhausted by it. If someone would have tried to pull this shit on me not even two months before the date, I would've lost my shit on them. You were nicer than I would've been. 

It's asinine that family feels entitled to dictate the details of your wedding.
Hahahahahahahahahahah! You are the best OP.
> My aunt (who was one of the uninvited) told me people are allowed to disagree with me and that doesn’t mean can pull an invitation from a wedding that they have made plans to attend.

But so, I thought all the uninvited people had already told you they would not be attending?
Yea she needed to take your side against your mom and convince your mom to be rational. I get it.
My great niece got married on Halloween about 6 years ago. In full costumes, at the Halloween attraction they worked at after it closed for the night. Workers and rest of guests in costume. Food was themed. It was a blast! They were married by Dracula!
Having a family related doctor at a gothic event only adds legitimacy to the gothicness of the event.
I helped decorate a cousins halloween wedding and we all dressed up too! It was super fun! I wish I went that direction.
I lost a good friend after she became a Christian Fundamentalist. She decided I was a sinner by just doing normal everyday things. ??? I had to threaten her with a restraining order to keep her from contacting me. I felt so bad for her kids since she canceled not only their Halloween, but Christmas and Easter too.
The good news is that the religious fringe hasn't taken over everywhere.  Last I checked, in the San Francisco bay area, we have at least one mosque across the street from a Jewish community center, and they still get along just fine.
I’m a bit older, but not by much, and I experienced exactly the same while I was growing up in the 70’s-80’s. I just found out yesterday that Hobby Lobby doesn’t sell Halloween decorations anymore—just fall stuff. It’s only a very small group of Christians who are behind all of this! Those of us whose faiths are hundreds or thousands of years old are not on board!
And they're so badly informed! Halloween = hallowed evening = holy night. It's based on a Christian celebration, including All Saints' Day on November 1 and All Souls' Day on November 2. By the 9th century, October 31 was being celebrated as All Hallows' Eve, later contracted to Halloween, throughout Western Christendom.

Yes, it has incorporated Samhain, a harvest festival, *to a degree* but considering the way Christians took over Christmas/Yule/Midwinter festival and Easter/Festival of Eostre/Spring festival, I don't see why they have a problem with this one??.
Just another way to (try to!) control women! Put it on the pile, with these people.
I’m also in my 50s and am repulsed by these loud, obnoxious religious zealots. And I’m a person with a lot of faith. 

I love that Halloween decor spending is second only to Christmas. 💀👻🎃
Thanks for pointing out this attitude is NOT held by most religions! This is def fringe idiocy
Last I heard they were still together with a baby. They would have gotten married 4+ years ago
/u/Eichmil - I'll tell the corny joke that my Father's Mom used to say. 🤭🤭
Knock knock? 🚪🚪
Who's there? 👀👀
Boo! 👻👻
Boo who? 🤷‍♀️🤷‍♀️
Stop that crying! 🖐️🚫
It's time to go to bed! 🛌🛌
🙄🙄
I turned 44 yesterday and she said this corny joke for a loooong time.
That’s what the uninvited will be saying!!
Monster mash, definitely
Satanic Panic at the Disco! 
Oh yeah my parents got me to do that all the time, I'd yell at people in costume to "go away satan worshipper" etc etc

On actual Halloween night we would just sit in the basement with the lights off and not answer the door at all.

Fuckin' miserable childhood, fundie Christians are wild
Yes, once my ex-husband‘s friends who used to live here in the northeast came to visit. They had lived in Tennessee for the last several years, become fundies and they had like 100 kids even though they were in their early 20s. It was the week of Halloween so I asked one of the little boys what he was going to be and he said “we ain’t Halloween people.” in my mind I was like welp that sucks, it’s the best holiday ever lol
Haha thanks, appreciate it :) cheers!
I'm 60+ and would love to break out my "devil with a blue dress on" costume. Good Golly it'll be fun.
I bet we could get 25 of us to attend.
Absolutely! I'm in my 60s and I think it sounds like a blast! I would love to go to a wedding in costume.
Oh, they're still demonizing the LGBTQ community. A lot of people have been taken in by the idea that the Christian Nationalists are only going after trans people. 

Right now, they're only *openly* going after Trans people. I can assure you that they are still *actively* preaching in their churches that gay people are abominations, and they will be targeting everyone else once the more vulnerable Trans folk are "dealt with."

Source: My mom has gotten enmeshed with these wackos, and I have overheard what the preachers she listens to are saying.
Anyone who is not in lock step with their way of thinking is their target. It is a damn shame and we do know who is to blame. Not that he practices what he has them preach !  😞😥😢😭
On target, as these self righteous hypocrites bleating about feelings are the problem. If they could just keep their beliefs inside their own homes and their heads not pushing it upon the rest of us. Side note, a Halloween wedding!! How awesome is that!! FAFO and she’ll have a better wedding without the bleating of others.
Exactly. It isn't age. Usually just religion and closed mindedness. 

Siouxsie is such a good costume idea!
Yes indeed -- one big trick of fundamentalists is pretending it "was always this way." I brought drag to my town about five years ago (as in establishing a venue) but in reality I brought it BACK, as in the 1970s we apparently had a lot of nightclubs and drag nights, and most of the women who lived in town and are now in their 60s have told me stories of drag queens fighting off the creeps when they, as young girls, would go out clubbing.

And, as my mother (one of those young girls then) likes to point out, it isn't about Christianity. She adored Carter, but the Evangelicals worked so hard to oust him because he \*was\* truly faithful, as opposed to being on their side, ever propagandizing side. I'm really heartened by how many people of faith are on this thread, too, or the non-religious talking about cool interfaith stuff in their town.
I'm not sure. I only dove into it a bit.. but we've always been the weird bunch, now it's just more normal. Lol
No. It'd take me a whole lot of quilts at about $230/king size quilt for quilting at my longarm lady. I just piece them and then when they're quilted put the binding and labels on.

I have quilted quite a few on my regular machine, but for the big ones, it's way less work to pay someone to do it for me.  I counted over 20 hours on one queen sized one, and while I love it, well, you can math it out.  Big "price" savings.
I just picked up two queen-sized from the Long Arm Quilter.

My mom is pissy with me because crafting is what brings joy to my life, not sitting around people talking about how hard our life is, (I don't go visit often and I only live 75 min away) so I have a few piles of quilts that have no home yet.

She asked me what I was going to do with them, and I told her that at my funeral, they will be there for people to take as goodie "bags" and anything left can be donated to the local women's shelter.  That made her more pissy, because then apparently I "don't care how people use the quilts I made them".  Yes, I do.  I care that they love them enough to want another one because the original one is raggedy and loved.  

It's very weird.
Bullies hate this one trick!
Agreed a hundred percent.
I almost canceled my wedding because of family members stressing me out. It’s not about them!
I got married at Easter. We had Easter eggs on the tables and a toy rabbit at the main table. I would have been thrilled if people turned up in that theme. Even if they wore sandals, drank all the wine and rolled up with a boulder. NTA!
omg as someone who has worked at a haunted house and loves Halloween (plus I'm unmarried), y'all are giving me so many ideas! all of the weddings in this thread sound incredible and so unique/personal!!
I, too, was married by Dracula. On Halloween. In Vegas. 10/10 would recommend Vegas elopement and Halloween weddings.
Doctor Bombay!
Just agree with her and remind her of Romans 3:23, “for ALL have sinned and come short of the glory of God.”  She is not better than you!
But I'll bet she supports trump who cheats, lies, sexually assault women and children, and steals from hard-working people who have done work on his properties.

You're the sinner.  Right.
How sad.   I celebrate every day.  Sep19 is Talk Like a Pirate Day.   Arrrrggh.    Wore hoop ear earrings and bandanna on my head.
That sounds like a Jehovah witness
Omaha has a tri-faith center with a campus with a synagogue, mosque, and church that host a lot of events together. I'm not a person of faith, but I think that's a pretty cool thing in my city.
That is so very great to hear.  😁
I grew up in Saudi Arabia, and there used to be Halloween events *there* of all places. I also seem to remember it almost being more encouraged if it was round the time of Eid.
That's awesome.
Hobby Lobby is run by a strict religious ( "christian") guy
I buy candles at Hobby lobby and practice witchcraft with them— bwahh-ahh-haa!
There’s a southern cook who makes down home cooking videos and she posted a meme asking if you had to give up one thing, what would it be? Halloween, Thanksgiving, pumpkin spice or football. I was absolutely blown away to see how many people said Halloween because it was “sinful” and “devilish” and “against god”. What on earth kind of right wing Handmaiden’s Tale religious mania filled circus has this country become?
I would NEVER shop at Hobby Lobby.  I don't think I've ever been in one.  There are better places to get your craft stuff.
I stopped going to Hobby Lobby. I don’t like their policies regarding the LGBTQ community and I witnessed their employees disrespectful behavior towards LGBTQ customers on several occasions. I’d decided I’d had enough. No one deserves to be treated like they were. 

IMHO- You have a right to your opinion, yes. But, you don’t have the right to cram it down everyone else’s throat.
The church that christianized those holidays is not the same as the one they are following now, though.  This opposition tends to come from puritan ideology.  So this isn't being badly informed; they consistently believe that the early christian church up through the reformation, and even many reformation churches, as well, were/are a perversion of their true religion.
Well, I would not expect anyone who is close minded and religious in this way to know *that* about Halloween. Hell, I didn't know that! And that's awesome
Cool! I love to hear/read about stories like that to shut down the naysayers like OP’s mom and grandmother.
Lol 😂! I think your grandmother would have gotten on well with mine. She had a whimsical sense of humor, too.
Knock knock jokes are fun.
I grew up going to church every time the doors were opened but my mom let us dress up and go out TOTing. So called Christian ppl these days are weird. They’re evil hypocrites.

Edited to Add: Children do as they’re told by abusive parents. I feel like that kid was just obeying her parents. Sad.
Do they not realise that the tradition of dressing ‘scarily’ is to frighten the evil spirits away until the day turns into All Hallows Day on the 1st November. That’s why the name of the day comes from All Hallows Eve or Hallow’een.
Iirc this Halloween nonsense being associated with Satan began in the churches here in the south. It started with the Satan worshipping panic. These Christians (👀) saw it Everywhere. I did confront these neighbors because the kid said it to my child who was 9!  Turns out it was the DAD telling his kids that. Needless to say I looked at them a bit differently after that.
We can party like it's 1999.
I'm 58 and would LOVE this.  I think a "blood"  soaked Mummy costume would be awesome.  Can't wear white you know.

Definitely NTA
Ha! I’m 68 and cracking up about how many people around my age want to attend now, including me! I always tell people we all grew up trick or treating and decorating and such and I’ve never known anyone who had the slightest urge to worship Satan. {insert eye roll}. If you are concerned about your kids literally taking candy from strangers, then limit to homes you know or carefully inspect the candy before eating. Don’t cancel on religious grounds. A Halloween themed wedding sounds fun and memorable. Love is love. Enjoy your day and be sure to post lots of pictures so your uninvited relatives can see all the fun they missed.
I’m in. I’ll be turning 69 on Saturday. My hair’s purple, though, not blue.
57 f here. I'm in!
More like 25,000 of us (at least!) 🎃
56!! I wanna come!!
I'll be 65 in Nov. , I'll come . Halloween is my jam .
Same!! 🎃🎆🎉
I didn't mean to imply any of this has stopped!
That's amazing!!!!
Yea I’d like to learn, crocheting (beginner level) just isn’t holding my interest.
I cackled and I’m Jewish. That’s amazing!!
I got married at a sci-fi convention! Among the costumes were Captain Barbosa, several iterations of Dr Who, (including me!), and a Klingon. It was amazing!
my cousin just got married in Vegas by a female Elvis impersonator, and I don't want to step on her Vegas toes and copy her. otherwise I would 1000% do this it sounds amazing!!
I got married by Elvis. It was supposed to be Little Person Elvis, but he had some health issues, so it was regular Elvis. It was great! Everyone said it was the most fun wedding ceremony they'd ever attended.
You’re probably right! SMH  😒 can’t figure out how they justify it.
You list out the ten commandments, and I think murder is the only one he hasn't broken!
That sounds amazing!  So nice to hear that.
Sure is.😊
They were also the named plaintiff in the case that went to the Supreme Court that argued that company insurance shouldn’t have to pay for birth control.  They won.  Of course, it still pays for Viagra….   And Hobby Lobby also was prosecuted for participating in illegal artifact smuggling (Biblical type artifacts) from the Middle East.
Chick-fil-A is the same way.
Pumpkin spice gets my vote for disappearing.   I like my coffee to taste like coffee.
It started in the 60s and 70s as a direct retaliation against the civil rights movement and second wave feminism 🙃
I don’t have one close enough for me to shop at anyway, but I completely agree
So it's a 'my (new) version doesn't follow the old version, so I'll reject the old festivals and say that they're the work of demons, because my (new) version is the true version'?

Hang on, more like: 'my (new) version doesn't follow the old version, so I'll reject ~~the old festivals~~ *one old festival (and keep the rest)* and say that ~~they're~~ *it is* the work of demons, because my (new) version is the 'true' version'?

That's hilarious! Thank you for the info (happy to learn).
Puritans ruin everything!
They were together for like 8 years before getting married. I remember when invitations came in, my immediate family had a bit of a “what?” moment because they had all assumed he had had one and we weren’t invited since we didn’t know him that well
Conservative Christians aren't even Christians.  They follow the old testament which makes them pseudo Jewish being they're preaching Judaic laws not Christians ones.
75 and ready for this!
Perfect, blue is reserved for the bride's hair!
It's all good!
Ditto, 56 in June!
My Jewish friend got married on Easter because the venue was real cheap that day 😂
I cackled too and am devout nothing.  Love your comment and LOVE OPs wedding plans and wish she was one of my kids or cousins's kids because I'd have been looking forward to this the second I GOT that invite!   

Fucked around and missed out on the best party they'll ever attend!

Best wishes to OP for a wonderful wedding and beautiful future.
Omg that sounds like so much fun!!! My boyfriend and I LOVE stuff like that…we’re also huge fans of avatar the last airbender. I think I would lose my mind if I could get married by some dressed up as uncle Iroh haha
I once witnessed a marriage proposal in Klingon, at a doll convention.
She might be flattered that you were inspired, especially if you change it up with the Dracula theme!
Psssst... It's a cult
That we know of.
Epstein.
Yeah, but their five finger discount coupons are amazing
I love a large chunk of the non-religious items that hobby lobby sells, but after how they treated their workers during COVID and this lawsuit, I decided not to shop there anymore. It's unfortunate, because they have a lovely selection of unique cabinet knobs. I also try to avoid buying from online resellers who just get their products in-store.
Also *I didn't actually read the Bible but I trust what my pastor says and I'm going to cherry pick the verses that align with my personal ideal*.
Double ditto, 56 here as well!
AITA for offering to sell my seat to honeymooners. 
I was flying from Melbourne to Dubai. I paid for a premium economy seat because it is a fourteen hour flight and I want to be comfortable. 

The person in the next seat had been upgraded and they asked if I could switch seat with their wife as they had just gotten married and were on their honeymoon. 

I congratulated him on his nuptials and asked where his wife was sitting. He pointed towards the back of the plane. In economy. 

I declined to switch seats. He asked if there was any way to convince me. I offered to switch if he paid the difference between the seats. It is a goodly amount. I had been lucky to get mine at a decent price. It would only have cost him $1,000 AU$. 

He said  that they were on a budget for their honeymoon. I congratulated once again and put in my earbuds. He muttered that I was an asshole. I said he was a prick for taking the upgrade instead of either sitting with his wife or giving it to her. 

I told my wife about the incident and she thinks I should have done the nice thing. 

For the record she hates flying in economy so I know she would not have switched. 

Welcome to /r/AmITheAsshole. Please view our [voting guide here](https://www.reddit.com/r/AmItheAsshole/wiki/faq#wiki_what.2019s_with_these_acronyms.3F_what_do_they_mean.3F), and remember to use **only one** judgement in your comment.

OP has offered the following explanation for why they think they might be the asshole:

 > A young guy wanted me to give his wife my better seat on a plane because they were on their honeymoon. I might be the asshole because I said I would only switch if he paid me to switch.

Help keep the sub engaging!

#Don’t downvote assholes!

Do upvote interesting posts!

 [Click Here For Our Rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/AmItheAsshole/about/rules) and [Click Here For Our FAQ](https://www.reddit.com/r/AmItheAsshole/wiki/faq)

##Subreddit Announcements

Follow the link above to learn more

---

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose/?to=/r/AmItheAsshole) if you have any questions or concerns.*

*Contest mode is 1.5 hours long on this post.*
NTA. If he really wanted to sit with his wife? I'm sure the person sitting beside her would have loved an upgrade to premium economy. He was essentially asking you to pay for his wife's upgrade.

As a seasoned flyer from Australia who also works in aviation? I smell a rat. Presumably they booked together. They would have had the opportunity to plead their case when the upgrade was processed, either by contacting the airline prior to the day of flying, or in person at the airport. My bet is that they either booked separately (so she couldn't be taken into account) or he has some kind of status with the airline. And I'd also bet that the newlywed yarn was just made up for sympathy. 

He didn't have to take the upgrade, and you are not to blame for his selfishness and lack of planning.
NTA at all. People who do this kind of thing are so crappy. Him trying to guilt trip you by telling you he was on his honeymoon was supposed to mean what exactly? Why were he and his wife entitled to a $1K gift from a stranger at the last minute? So their plan was to take the upgrade and try to bamboozle whoever was sitting there? They played themselves.

>He said that they were on a budget for their honeymoon.

What does this have to do with the price of peas? Their poor planning is not your emergency. They should have rejected the upgrade if they wanted to be sure they sat together.
The AH is the guy who took the upgrade, left his wife in economy, and tried to guilt a stranger into swapping seats with his wife.

He had options.  He could have either refused the upgrade, paid the price difference you offered, or swapped seats with his wife.

Suggesting that *you* are the AH in this scenario confirms he's awful. Good luck to his new wife!

NTA
NTA.  I'm so tired of people thinking they can 'guilt' someone into giving in, even expecting them to lose money in the deal.

This guy is the AH and I don't think his marriage will last.  They just got married and he already abandoned his new wife for the 'good life'.  His wife now knows she made a mistake, hopefully she'll get out before too long.
NTA, but he is. You're absolutely right. That dude is a total AH for taking the seat and leaving his new wife in economy on their honeymoon. Yikes. Bets on how long that marriage will last.
You are 100% NOT the ahole.   

Their lack of planning is not your fault.   The sheer entitlement of some people is laughable.

Your wife was also 100% wrong on this one, you planned, you paid for your seat upgrade you even offered to be very nice and move if you got the cost of the seat upgrade.

Some people are ridiculous.
NTA

As I’ve flown back and forth between US and Sydney, I totally get why you want the better seats. Being newlyweds doesn’t entitle you to special treatment. You did the polite thing: congrats but polite no. You could have laughed in his face bc he’s literally asking you to ditch $1000 dollars just bc they’re newlywed. If he was on his honeymoon, celebrating his birthday and announcing their first baby on the way, that’s still not a good reason to use your money to his benefit.
NTA at all. But he sure is. If he wants to sit next to his wife, why wouldn't he give up his premium seat to the person sitting next to his wife in economy? I am sure that switch is very favorable and he gets to be next to her the whole flight. He chose not to do that.

The dude can only sit next to his wife in premium economy? Can't go to economy with her, if he wants it that bad? Sounds like he has priorities.

And it's a 14 hour flight. No way am I losing money and comfort for some couple to sit together. It's very easy for your wife to say that when you know she will never follow through. Lol
NTA, if he wanted to sit with his wife, he could have easily switched his premium economy seat with the person sitting next to his wife in economy.
100% NTA. You paid extra for that seat. He was asking you, a complete stranger, to basically give him 1000 AU$. The audacity....

Also, he's even more TA for taking the upgrade and leaving his bride in the back.
NTA. 

I think you did a great service to the wife. You have helped her see who her husband really is, hopefully before they have children together. On their honeymoon he abandons her? He upgrades and leaves her behind? Is that what he'll do again when he sees the first wrinkle on her, or if she gains three pounds? Leave her behind when he upgrades?

Hopefully your act of kindness will help her see clearly to dump his ass.
People do this to themselves. If they want to try to steal someone else’s paid seats they better find the biggest fool. Only a fool is falling for these scams and lies. They had zero intentions to pay the price for what they really wanted. Instead they are going to try to find the biggest sucker to believe the story they’re going to spin for those precious seats they want. If you’re not going to pick out a person in the airport and gift them your seats randomly why would you do it the last few minutes on the plane? Do not let the pressure and the eyes on you give up your seats that you worked hard and planned for. Tell these ppl no. It’s one word. Do not explain past that. Ignore them and have a nice trip.
NTA 


He's on **his** honeymoon and took an upgrade leaving his brand new wife in economy on a 14 hour flight? And expects you, a complete stranger, to give up **your paid for upgrade**? Wow. I think we just found spouse of the year.
NTA. I pick my seat and pay for the seat selection every time I fly bc that’s where I want to sit. I had a significantly delayed flight once that didn’t leave until almost midnight so I was tired and wanted to be able to rest on the plane. When we boarded and sat an older man in the middle seat asked if I’d change seats with his wife. I was in a window seat on an emergency row with no one behind me, she was in the middle row crammed somewhere else. Not a chance in hell I’m ever trading a window seat with a middle seat. Too bad so sad.
Let's just all agree that if you pay to select your seat, pay for an upgraded seat, or just simply don't want to move, you are never TA for not switching to a lesser seat. If your ticket has your name and your seat number on it, and you're in that seat, it's yours, and you're not at all obligated to move unless a flight attendant asks you to for a safety reason.
I mean its your seat you paid for it. You even offered to sell it to them at cost.
  
NTA.
  
Meanwhile that dude sitting alone there and not with his wife is just a bit weird.
NTA,  I’ll wager if he offered his upgrade seat to whoever was sitting next to his new wife, they would have accepted and he could then be with her for the flight.
Wait a second… Melbourne - Dubai.  Is your name Morgan?
NTA not even close. 

 He created the problem by taking the upgrade and abandoning his wife in economy. I can’t fathom you being expected to hand over your expensive seat for free.
NTA you asked to be reimbursed for the price difference. That is completely fair. He is a stranger you don’t owe him anything. I’m guessing his marriage is off to a really good start given his behavior.
NTA, and I doubt he was on his honeymoon.
NTA - you paid for your seat so it’s entirely up to you what you do with it. The other man was the one to take the seat upgrade and move up there without his wife, it’s not on you to try and make their plans work. General rule of thumb for seat swapping is that you don’t ask someone to move to a seat that’s “worse” than their original one
You should have said ‘Congrats, I’m on my honeymoon too!’
You were absolutely right.  He wanted a total stranger to give his wife how much money? When he wouldn't do it himself? What an asshole he was.  Great start to the honeymoon.  

NTA.
NTA, why did he take the upgrade if he wanted to sit with his wife? You did right thing.  
NTA. While the upgrade is nice, he equally could have offered the person sitting beside the wife to switch, or not take the upgrade if he really wanted to sit with his wife. He wanted you to pay for his upgrade, which you paid extra money for. Offering the price difference was a more than reasonable thing to do. It still baffles me why you would sit separately from your partner if it's really their honeymoon..
NTA, for all you know the guy has been married forever and it's their scam.  He took the upgrade so you'd feel sorry for the woman, and you're right, he's the asshole for not giving it to her.

If people want better seats on a plane they should pay for them, just like you did.  Why would a stranger give them anything worth that much?  No is a complete sentence, you owe them nothing.
This is just entitled. I couldn't care less if he's on his honeymoon, I'm not switching my higher class seat for a lower one. If it was so important for him to sit next to his wife, he could have offered his seat to someone else. He didn't.

NTA.
NTA- I am glad you stood your ground and offered a fair compromise. 

You paid for your seat- why give up your bought upgrade for a stranger who couldn’t budget for two premium seats. That is so bold for him to assume that it’s okay to guilt trip another.
NTA. You just met the dude and he’s expecting a $1,000 wedding gift from you? Absolutely not.
NTA. I really dislike entitled people. He asked, you politely declined so there was no reason for him to be rude. He should have declined the upgrade or asked the gate agent if they could also upgrade his wife. Idk why he felt entitled to ask you to switch your paid PE seat for E for free.
NTA


Any gentleman (real man) would have given his new bride the seat without a second thought



  I hate to sound so supportive of trad gender roles here, but my Texas is showing a little 🤣
OMG SO NTA. There is something odd about that situation - a couple was traveling for their honeymoon but only one got upgraded? If that's true, his expectation that you do them a solid by giving them a seat you paid extra for really speaks to an insane level of entitlement on his / their part. Given that they were willing to use or accept an upgrade of only one seat, they might have assumed they could guilt someone else into changing but you were right to refuse or only do it if you were compensated. They had options - pay for an upgrade or decline the upgrade so they could sit together.
NTA, it wouldn't surprise me if he isn't a con man. Conned his way to a better seat, then tried to con you out of a seat for his wife. Probably not on his honeymoon.
NTA

Their lack of planning is not your problem.
NTA.

>I said he was a prick for taking the upgrade instead of either sitting with his wife or giving it to her.

This is exactly the correct argument.

Either the guy was an AH for selfishly taking the upgrade, or they were both the AH because they thought one of them could take it and the other could guilt-trip a stranger into giving up their seat.
NTA 

>*I said he was a prick for taking the upgrade instead of either sitting with his wife*

THIS. Fuck that guy. He left his wife on their honeymoon and you're the AH??
NTA. You paid for your seat. If he wanted his wife to sit there, he should have paid for it.
NTA. Why on earth would you ever want to do that? Why would his honeymoon mean anything to you, let alone enough to give up such an expensive thing? It didn’t mean enough to him for him to sit with his new wife.
The onus is not on you to be less comfortable to make him happy. He should have approached the person next to his wife and given his upgrade to them, and made himself lesss comfortable to be able to sit next to his wife.
Should have offered his wife a husband upgrade
NTA but he is one! He took the upgrade for himself and left her at economy ? Did he atleast swap mid way with her ? Or offer the seat to her or exchange the seat to sit with her instead ?

I can’t fault you anywhere but can fault him everywhere. And she married him? Jeez!

P.s your wife is wrong. And she’s just talk, esp if she herself won’t do it.
On my honeymoon (Hawaii) there is no way I would’ve taken an upgrade that left my wife back in steerage then expected some stranger to give up their seat to bail me out of bring the asshole. I would have stayed in economy with her.
NTA. I was on my honeymoon with my husband and there was an issue where we had to change flights and could not sit together. I had a middle seat and my husband had an aisle seat in the row in front of me, next to 2 teenage boys. We asked if the boy in the middle seat wouldn't mind switching because we were on our honeymoon. He looked over at his parents in another row and the dad looked at me and said "you see the problem is that you're not offering him a better seat, it's just the same seat one row behind." It bothered me but ultimately I knew that it was our problem, not theirs, so we just dealt with it. I couldn't imagine asking someone to move to the back of the plane.
"We're on a budget" to Dubai? BYE!!
>I told my wife about the incident and she thinks I should have done the nice thing.

I never understand this thinking. "Do the nice thing". The nice thing? That seat upgrade cost OP $1k. Who the fuck gives a complete stranger a $1k present for their honeymoon?
[removed]
nta i want to believe this is made up but people lost their minds
NTA. People like that suck.
NTA - if they didn't properly plan to sit together and book their flights accordingly, that isn't your fault at all. He should have refused his upgrade rather than trying to get you to give up yours.

It's for him to face the music when his new bride says (accurately) that he ruined their honeymoon by being inconsiderate towards her; it isn't your problem.
NTA.  He chose to fly upgraded and leave his new wife in economy. I hope she gets that idea.
Assuming real, NTA, they didn't have the right to even ask, while you had right to refuse
NTA at all. This was actually a hypothetical I asked my partner and a couple friends recently. If you were flying together (specially on a significant trip like a first trip together), and one of you was offered an upgrade, what would you do?

My partner immediately said he would give it to me.
I said I wouldn't take it if it's our first flight together (which is coming up) because we paid extra to be able to sit together and that's more important to me. Maybe I would take it on the way back though since I'm more likely to be awake the entire time. 

My friend said she would give to her husband because he's taller and could use the extra leg room.


Bottom line is, no one gave the selfish answer. So good luck to those newly weds 😬
lol...so he made his new bride sit in economy and you're the one who is wrong?
I'm just confused why a flight attendant would look at 2 people flying together and offer to upgrade one of them. I mean, I've heard this story a thousand times but why are airlines splitting up presumably amicable pairs? If they can't see the obvious then they need to learn 


^^**OR**

People need to stop trying to get strangers to pay for the upgrade for their flying partner (ie enough points for one but not both so roll the dice)
One of the easiest NTA I've ever seen. 

It's mind blowing how entitled some people can be.
You're NTA.. but your wife is for even suggesting this as well as the other guy.
WTF NTA 

He’s not entitled to a seat that SOMEONE ELSE PAID FOR.

Your wife is 100% wrong too. Basically expecting you to hand $1000 to a stranger.
NTA. Ditching your bride in coach on your honeymoon, ouch.
Nta fuck that lol
Nta


What a worthless man. He really took the upgrade and made his new wife sit in a cheaper seat. That's an embarrassing start for their marriage.
He knew he was in shit from his wife for taking the upgrade.
>she thinks I should have done the nice thing.


 as if she'd have been fine with you wasting $1000 to be nice. NTA
NTA, obviously
NTA. You called it, if he really wanted to celebrate his honeymoon he would have forked out the cash or let his new wife nab the upgrade. He could also have enjoyed the flight with his wife in economy. His sense of entitlement isn't your assholery.
NTA, screw that guy lol.
NTA

I've given up free upgrades. I've also given up my spot voluntarily on an overbooked flight for very little compensation to help someone out. 

If you want to do it then that's up to you. I also didn't think he's an AH for asking. Ask whatever you like. But he is the AH for pushing the issue once being told no. He is also the AH for taking an upgrade that separated him from his wife. He could have given it to her so she could ride more comfortably. Or just stayed uncomfortable together. 

To ask a stranger for $1,000? Again, you can ask. But drop it once it's a no and move on.
NTA 

And I agree with you. He probably jumped on the upgrade like a grenade and as he was leaving her looked back with “I’m gonna try and get you a seat too, lover!” Like that somehow makes him less of an asshole for taking the upgrade and leaving her in the back alone on the honeymoon he claims is so important.
hahahahahahah easy to give away someone else's thing
NTA, the nerve of him to ask you, to not sit with his wife on their honeymoon, and then to be an ass about it!
NTA

He could have switched to economy.. Problem solved.
Lol, I call BS.  I seriously doubt the guy was a newlywed.  Had he been he would have set with his wife.  NTA.
He could have switched himself with her neighbor.  Shine that noise.
NTA... First and foremost. I am just curious. Why would his wife accept this nonsense ? Were they in a culture where men are seen as "Superior" just by benefit of the XY chromosomes?  If that's the case HUGE RED FLAG. Then again she might just be conditioned for such BS.  Do you think when they return he will give her the upgraded seat and he will take the cramped one?
What is more likely: that a newly married person would deliberately book an upgrade and leave his wife behind, or that some random person who wants to scam you out of $1000 lies and says they're on their honeymoon?
NTA.  And you are right for calling that guy  prick for not giving the upgrade to his wife.

Did he stay in the seat the whole time while wife was stuck back in economy? What a prince.

The nerve of some people.
NTA but he sure is. So nice he got upgraded and ditched his new wife in economy.. what an asshole. 

I think I did see an aitah about this exact situation but it was the wife wondering if she could annul the wedding bc her husband took the upgrade and abandoned her on the flight to their honeymoon. 

Honestly idc about an upgrade if it means I’m on my own away from my people. I’d rather be in economy with my people than alone in first.

I think you were very reasonable. Sure I’ll give up my seat if you give me what I paid for it. 
Did the guy expect you to be so blown away by their getting married and gift them a 1k seat upgrade from the goodness of your soul.. fk that entitled dude. No one cares you got married fella🤭
NTA.   You PAID extra for your seat.  And you're right about him being an AH for taking the upgrade without her.
NTA. He shoulda upgraded his own damn wife
His issue/problem doesn’t become yours to fix. These people on planes buy cheap seats for their partners then con others to switch with their partners cause…gee, they just need to sit together. Under those circumstances I'm always a no. I book our seats ahead ….aisle seats across from each other. Thanks but not trading for the dreaded middle seat or the window. No !
It's been said plenty, but if he was a decent man he would have given his wife the upgrade to premium economy instead of taking it himself.

When you ask for upgrades, 99% of the time they won't just give them to you unless there's some outstanding reason for it, so it was likely that the guy got bumped due to airline status but his wife didn't.  So instead of saying "great, I got bumped, but I want you to have the seat" to his wife, he took it for himself and expected someone to just switch with his wife so they could *both* have upgrades?  Dude is entitled *and* selfish.

NTA.
How many times is this going to be posted this month?  Does it really happen that often?
YTA for posting an obvious NTA
As a fellow Melbournian, hell no. I’ve done that flight many times and you paid for that seat. It’s yours. 
You were kind enough to offer it to them as long as you got compensation, he wasn’t willing to take you up on the offer and that’s on him. If he really wanted to sit with his wife then he could have passed on the upgrade, or offered it to the person next to them in economy. 
NTA
NTA. The correct switching protocol is for the person asking to take the lesser seat. Like others said, if he really wanted to sit next to his wife, he could move back to general economy. 

One time I switched economy seats with someone so they could sit next to their significant other. When I asked where their seat was, they waved generally toward the back. I ended up in the last row next to the bathrooms in a middle seat wishing I hadn’t done the nice thing. You offered a fair trade based on market value of the seat difference. Glad you got to fly comfortably in the seat you booked.
NTA. It's not your fault his budget falls short (yes, mine would too).  I'm with you: Why didn't he trade down to sit with his wife?  I'd be wondering if it was even their honeymoon.
How entitled!  You are NTA and he does not have the right to make you move just because he got married. So what? He should have swapped with his wife’s neighbour, made their day by giving them his upgrade and sat with his wife in economy. 

💯% on your side, 💯% NTA.
The man basically asked you for a $1,000 dollars and then called you an asshole when you said no. What an asshole of mega proportions. NTA.
That husband is the asshole for taking that upgrade. What ASSHOLE leaves his wife in the back of the plane on their honeymoon? If I would have been his wife,I would have been getting me a flight on the first plane home when I landed and would have been looking for a divorce lawyer
NTA! Similar thing happened to me a few years ago on Mother’s Day. I had a C+ window seat. Next to me was a father with his daughter in the middle. He asked if I would switch my window seat for his wife’s middle seat. I politely declined. The guy called me an A for not letting a mom sitting next to her daughter on Mother’s Day. I pretended not to hear him to avoid conflict but should’ve told him to switch seats with his wife.
NTA. If he wanted to be with his wife he should have moved back to where she was sitting. I’m sure her neighbor would have taken the swap immediately
NTA, you were even nice to offer to sell your seat to them.
NTA fuck that dipshit
NTA.
I think their marriage will not last long.
NTA. He should have offered the seat to his new wife instead. You don’t have to give up your seat that you paid for however I would’ve charged him for the RRP rather than the discounted amount you actually paid.
Who takes a single upgrade on their honeymoon? He’s something else!!!
Just NTA
Totally NTA. H should ask the people sitting ext to his wife if they’d like the upgrade. The whole newlywed thing was probably a scam that’s worked for them once or more lol.
It's amazing to me how different people think. The airline screwed up by overbooking, my daughter, her husband, and 4 kids were bumped to 2 different airplanes.
She and her 2 yr old daughter were given 2 seats on another airplane. 1 in first class, and 1 in economy. 
She got on early because she had a child with her. And sat herself & daughter down in the economy section.
The passenger assigned to the economy seat she took was polite, and thrilled to get a 1st class seat.
This was an attempted scam and your wife is gullible.
Airlines are a weird place, where people feel entitled to things that aren’t theirs.

Imagine that anywhere else?

Restaurant: “excuse me… I just got a side salad, but your steak looks great, would it be ok if I swapped them?”

Car dealership: “I see you just bought a new BMW.  My wife is a great person… and she has ALWAYS wanted one.  Can I bring her Honda Civic over here and trade you?”

Concert: “my husband really loves this band, would you mind swapping seats?  He’d love to sit in the front row, and you could have his seat way up there in the bleachers!!”

Obviously NTA.
There is no way I would’ve been able to contain my laughter when I responded with “so you ditched your new bride in economy with out a second thought but I’m the asshole? At least I’m getting laid this week”
NTA. HE'S the asshole for leaving his wife in economy on their honeymoon just because he got an upgrade, if that's even the truth
If he really wanted to sit with his wife he could have gone back and switched with her seatmate 
Again???
100% NTA and you are right, supposing this guy's story was even true, then leaving his new wife in economy while he chivalrously (/s) steps up to premium, makes him a damned prick. Ugh!
I used to travel a lot for work, so I had great status. My family was flying on a trip with two legs, and I got an upgrade while my wife and kids (3 and 1) did not. I sat with the kids on the first leg, and on the second leg we all got on together, and I waved good by to the three of them and sat in first class. The stewardess spent the first half of the trip giving me the stink eye and aggressively placing my snacks and what not. Then my wife and son come up to say hi, and my wife mentioned I had been with the kids on the first leg as the stewardess cooed over my kid. The second half of the flight was very pleasant, with extra champagne kind eye contact.

anyhow, you’re not the asshole. You paid for your seat and just happened to sit next to this guy. Is everyone else in premium economy also an asshole?
Semi-related story: My wife and I went on our honeymoon a few years ago and our initial flight home was cancelled. When they booked our flights for the next day (economy), we weren’t even sat next to each other. We asked about this at the info booth and we were told that we’d need to ask other people to switch seating. It was a nightmare and we were very lucky that one person was quite understanding and helped us out. Emirates did not give a sh*t, honeymoon or not. 

My point in saying this is that while a couple on a honeymoon ‘could’ be accidentally seated separately, I don’t think that’s what’s happened in your situation. I think this is a ploy. If it were me as the honeymooner, I’d be desperately doing what I could to sit next to my wife, even if it meant a ‘downgrade’ to my allocated seat. 

NTA
I had a woman ask me if I wanted to volunteer my seat for a family in the row ahead. I said no. She could have easily offered HER seat. Asshat people.
Yeah, that guy was full of it. Good for you for not letting him scam you.
Ahhh karma farming with a scenario virtually beaten to death in this forum.  Let’s play AITA bingo and see how many times we see “entitlement” or “audacity” in the comments.  

Also, let’s think logically.  This fictitious couple didn’t tell the gate agent they were on a honeymoon?  Because what agent says, “oh I’m sorry only one of you gets upgraded”?  No airline randomly upgrades ONE seat when two were booked together.  Which for this BS story (the honeymoon) they were booked together.  

YTA for writing the same story for the 1 billionth time.  We are all bored with airline seat switch stories.
What kind of flight attendant only upgrades half the honeymoon couple? That doesn’t make sense. He was at it!
Dude totally saw a hot girl in economy, and thought he might get laid if he got her upgraded to sit next to him.  Probably had some line ready to go about how he pulled strings, etc
We need an auto reply for AITA.  Anytime it involves someone trying to guilt you into switching seats you paid for on an airplane (or train) it’s an automatic NTA.  

That’s it.  None of the other details matter.  

Honeymoon?
Parent and kid?
Cancer survivor?
Soldier?

Does. Not. Matter.  
It is NEVER your responsibility to make up for other people’s lack of planning or inconvenient situation. Because that’s all it is, an inconvenience. If it’s an actual necessity then the airline will reseat people.  

NTA.  The N stands for NEVER.  
So I’m confused on this because they won’t let you switch seats after boarding. A few years ago we were flying abroad and my husband’s company paid for his flight so he was in biz class and I (wife) had our toddlers alone in the front of economy (because we couldn’t afford biz class ourselves) . Our plan was to switch back and forth. When I popped up in the aisle to see him the flight attendant was furious I was there, I tried politely explaining the situation and she wouldn’t even let me talk to him as he was a few more seats up before she stopped me. Once he saw what was happening he asked if I could just sit in his seat instead for the rest of the flight and they refused saying if I tried to come up again they would call the pilot. That the seat was in his name and only he had access to it and that customers aren’t allowed to switch. It was really bizarre and extreme, especially since it was an overnight flight and I had tiny kiddos alone. They simply didn’t care.
and you know he was on his honeymoon how? Because he said so? I don't think so. NTA. Never switch seats for these requests. It is always a calculated move on the part of the person requesting.
^^^^AUTOMOD  ***Thanks for posting! This comment is a copy of your post so readers can see the original text if your post is edited or removed. This comment is NOT accusing you of copying anything. Read [this](https://www.reddit.com/r/AmItheAsshole/wiki/faq#wiki_post_deletion) before [contacting the mod team](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FAmItheAsshole)***

I was flying from Melbourne to Dubai. I paid for a premium economy seat because it is a fourteen hour flight and I want to be comfortable. 

The person in the next seat had been upgraded and they asked if I could switch seat with their wife as they had just gotten married and were on their honeymoon. 

I congratulated him on his nuptials and asked where his wife was sitting. He pointed towards the back of the plane. In economy. 

I declined to switch seats. He asked if there was any way to convince me. I offered to switch if he paid the difference between the seats. It is a goodly amount. I had been lucky to get mine at a decent price. It would only have cost him $1,000 AU$. 

He said  that they were on a budget for their honeymoon. I congratulated once again and put in my earbuds. He muttered that I was an asshole. I said he was a prick for taking the upgrade instead of either sitting with his wife or giving it to her. 

I told my wife about the incident and she thinks I should have done the nice thing. 

For the record she hates flying in economy so I know she would not have switched. 


*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/AmItheAsshole) if you have any questions or concerns.*
Definitely NTA you're not obligated to do anything. You made a reasonable offer that he couldn't meet. I swear the entitlement people feel sometimes is just unreal.
NTA everything you did was reasonable and assuming he wasn’t lying about it being their honeymoon I do wonder how long they’ll be married for…
NTA - funny the didn’t try the reverse and offer someone premium economy in exchange for their economy seat
NTA That guy was being an asshole. It was sketchy to even ask you to trade an upgraded seat for back of the plane economy. Once you said no, everything after that was just him being an asshole.
If he wanted to sit with his wife, he should have offered his upgrade to one of her seatmates. Better yet, he shouldn't have taken the upgrade since it was only for one. But, he thought he could make a sucker out of the person seated next to him.
NTA - he's the asshole that voluntarily left his wife because something better came along
NTA
NTA. Even if the story is true, the wife is likely to get another honeymoon after she divorces this fool.
NTA. Who the hell randomly asks someone to go to economy after paying for premium? He's calling you an asshole for you not giving away free money?
NTA if wanted to sit together and save & buy two economy not one economy one premium and hope a stranger will give the seat they paid for for free.
NTA. Their poor planning isn’t your problem.
Why did he take the upgrade if he was on his honeymoon?   NTA He could have asked the passenger next to his new wife to switch seats with him and sat with his wife. 

I'm actually relatively flexible on switching seats (if they have a good reason and ask nicely) UNLESS I've paid extra for the seat then it's a hard no.
NTA but you knew that. They’re just being entitled shyts.
Absolutely NTA. If he wanted then both so sit in premium economy, he should have paid for Both. He wanted to get two for the price of one. What an idiot
NTA, I have been upgraded when my SO was not, I declined the upgrade
Omg nta! This makes me so mad, the entitled is insane.
Nta he lied 
NTA

I am so TIRED of reading stories about people trying to shame other people into giving up their seats on an airplane.  Emergency or last-minute flights mean you get what's available seat-wise.  Period.  Advance purchase means you can pick your seat.  If you paid more for a premium seat you paid for that seat and you're under  zero obligation to move.  Not for children, not for newlyweds, not for whatever.   

Now if someone needs your seat because they're in a cast or wheelchair - yeah they NEED your seat.  But want your seat?  Hell no.

And frankly Good for YOU telling groom he was the AH for leaving his wife behind.
NTA. If you have given up your seat for the “newlyweds” you’d have joined them on their honeymoon because you’d be the one getting fucked over!
NTA. If they wanted to sit together they should have booked seats together. Their budgetary constraints aren't your problem and you did give him a perfectly fair, valid option, which he did not accept. If he were a real man he'd be going back there near his wife and offering his premium upgrade to someone else so he could sit with her.
NTA. Let me say this clearly: You paid for a service (the upgraded seat). Someone offered you a worse seat. You said no in a reasonably polite manner. You did nothing wrong. 

If you want an extra reason, some airlines do not involve seat switching. It could also be unsafe. For example, suppose the person who is in your seat uses the tablet to create a false bomb threat or the plane has an accident and they go based on the seating manifest: you would be the one assumed to be responsible, since legally, you are in that seat
No.  That guy is a dick for taking the upgrade and not giving it to his wife..
NTA! He should have stayed with his wife.
NTA - my husband would just give me the seat and sit in the back. We would never inconvenience anyone especially someone who laid more for their seat. Also, no means no. What’s up with the entitlement nowadays?!
NTA
NTA. They should have paid for seats together in the same class that they can afford.
Ntah. I don’t care if it was free for you he asked you declined you ask for money back he declined.  It is what it is.
NTA. He was the actual AH.
NTA.  He must not be too happy to be married to leave his new wife like that.
No one is ever an asshole for maintaining the seat they paid for. You’re dead right, he should’ve stayed with his wife and her discomfort is not your issue
NTA. You are not obligated to give people free stuff.
NTA, he made the choice to sit in premium instead of with his wife
NTA

He could have declined the upgrade or as you suggested allowed his wife to sit in the nicer seat. 

Instead she knows what expect the rest of her marriage with her ‘me first’ spouse.
NTA. If he really wanted to sit with his wife, he could’ve declined the upgrade. It’s a long flight and it’s extremely entitled to expect someone to agree to this request.
NTA. He shouldn’t have upgraded with the intention to guilt someone into giving their seat away. Honeymoon or not. That was an asshole move on his part. 

He also could have just gone back to economy and switched seats with the person who was next to his wife. Did he? 

If not it makes me think he just wanted a free upgrade and was trying to manipulate you into that.
Nope. He should have gone back to economy and sat with his new wife. Boo hoo hoo. 

NTA.
NTA at all. Fuck that guy for trying to guilt trip you into switching seats, was probably trying to scam you out of it anyway by pretending he could get some bird he chatted up to sit up front with him cause he's so important and if he wasn't then he's a shitty husband to his new wife for sitting separately. Fuck that guy and well done you bro for calling him a prick.
If he so eagerly wanted to seat near his wife then offer the person sitting beside her an exchange of seat. Who would refuse a free upgrade?
NTA. He expected you, a stranger, to hand him a $1000 wedding gift and sit in economy? GTFOH.
NTA- Husband should have switched with the person in economy next to his wife if sitting next to her was that serious. 

I wouldn't switch my seat on an airplane unless it was comparable, better, or they make it worth my while.
yea no, no need to do the nice thing. It’s a nice gesture but never a requirement.
Nta. What an ass, making her sit in back. Btw, my mental image is that she is still in her wedding dress.
NTA. The fact that the guy took an upgrade while on his honeymoon...he's got bigger problems to deal with. OP did that bride a favor because she had that long flight in economy to rethink whether or not she wants to be with a man who doesn't hesitate to ditch her for a better opportunity.
He took the upgrade and left his brand new wife behind?? I think it's pretty clear who the asshole is here.
NTA: should have asked to see proof of the recent wedding. and then still said no
What a turd he is. My husband would have 1. Asked the attendant if I could have had the seat in his place, and I didn't want to sit without him, would have declined it so we could sit together. (We were too poor when we were first married to have afforded to upgrade)
NTA why should you give someone you don’t know a $1000 wedding present.
Absolutely NTA. People don't plan and expect a stranger to give up their hard earned money because of it. Entitlement at its finest. Book economy seats together or pay yourselves to sit together in economy plus. End of story.
Nta. He was for not taking his wife with him.   On my honeymoon they bumped both of us which was awesome, but we flew somewhere else another time and I got bumped and she didn't and I went to thr gate agent and said hey you need to bump me or put me next to her, he was cool and said oh crap.  Whoever got on the flight and was assigned next to her got my upgrade lol
NTA. They should have booked it then.
NTA

You just met the man, why would you give him a $1000 wedding gift. If he didn't want to pay the $1000 he should have done what you said, either sit with his wife or give her the upgraded seat.
Nta, the dude abandoned his "bride" for an upgrade. He was the idiot.

Your wife so wouldn't have switched with him either.
NTA. I would NEVER give up my premium seat to go to economy seating. Especially since I paid for it. 

He’s an asshole for even calling you an asshole. 

I wouldn’t have even offered if he paid me for it, you are much kinder than me lol.
NTA. That guy could have either stayed in economy with his wife, or let her have the seat. You paid an extra $1000 to be comfortable and he expected you to just give it to him. He’s the a-hole and super entitled.
absolutely NTA. You are under no obligation to switch seats with someone for any reason, and I would never even ASK someone to switch seats unless the seat they are being offered is a better or equal seat to the one they already have. He should have declined the upgrade and sat with his wife if it was so important to sit together, not beg strangers to forego a seat they paid a premium for.
NTA. The expression is definitely *NOT* “Happy Other Guy’s Wife, Happy Life.” 

Nope, that’s not how that works at all.
NTA. Everything you said was right on.
NTA - You are as far from an Asshole as possible on this
lol. So this guy left his new bride back in steerage, on their honeymoon, and you’re supposed to eat a thousand dollars so they can reunite? 

Hell nah, NTA.
NTA...like that dude was way out of line. You purchased the seat you wanted. He is definitely the AH.
I’m not sure about other airlines, but I have very high status on United. When I check in I am asked if I want to be put in the queue for in upgrade. When I am flying with my wife, who has much lower status, I say NO.
NTA.  Just no.
NTA ..... Honeymoon or not ...... Plan, Plan, Plan ahead!  Why would a NEW husband abandon his New wife in economy?  I predict his marriage won't last unless wifey is very submissive.  This was not your problem; you were just the poor unfortunate victim he thought to harass to get his way!
He ASSumed you’d give it up, NTA
I would bet my car they were just taking a normal vacation. I'm sure they pulled the newlywed thing before specifically to save a couple thousand and both fly upgraded. Seems like a scam to get a free upgraded seat by hitting some poor guy with a guilt trip.

NTA and honestly even if it wasn't a scam idc. Give your upgraded seat to the guy next to your wife in the regular seats don't try to fleece some guy into a shittier situation.
NTA, but maybe made a bad call. 

If the guy got upgraded, didn’t that mean his economy seat was then empty? 

And if so, had you switched with the wife, wouldn’t you have had the husband’s empty seat next to you? 

Don’t fly much these days so not sure how that all works.
The dude got upgraded and abandoned his new bride , this marriage looks like it will last 😂
Why was his new wife sitting way back and not him?  total ah move.

NTA
What airline did you fly with? Most airlines don't offer just one person an upgrade
NTA , for long flights like that the upgrade isn't worth giving up unless it is for a ill elderly person mid flight who got sick.  I had to fly business for first time from Canada to middle east after flying economy for all my life after recovery  from brain surgery . The difference for long flight is huge and why it cost money . He should have rejected the free upgrade to be with her or trade with whoever sitting next to her .
I’m not giving a stranger a $1000 gift & you won’t guilt trip me into it either.
NTA

He is rude.
Of course he should have paid.
And why would just one of them take the upgrade?
Maybe they ordered one eco ticket so they could guilt another passenger to make a switch and then save the money.

Also, if your wife needs a strong «really, you would have med the switch?»
Funny thing how wife says that when she dont fly in economy too lol

NTA
NTA. Absolutely not at all
NTA. 

The fact that they took an upgrade where one of them was premium and one wasn't was all on him.   If he wanted to sit together, he should have declined.
NTA. He could be fibbing too.
The other passenger is the ahole for either accepting an upgrade or lying or not letting his new wife (cough cough don’t think this is true) be in economy.
NTA. Nothing more to say, this is very obvious.
NTA. When did 'asking' for something become a de-facto demand? It seems that people ask but really mean "if you don't do it I will guilt you or make scene until you do it". It is time people realize that other people are important as well.
There is absolutely no way you should have given up your very expensive seat to a stranger who already got a free seat. 

Why would you be nice and give that away?That makes no sense. Do you want to be nice and send me a thousand dollars?  That's asking the exact same thing.You're giving away free money to a stranger. 

And yeah , he's a jerk for taking an upgrade and leaving his wife in the back
NTA, I dont believe it was their honeymoon.  I think he was full of shit and just trying to get a free upgrade for his wife/gf.
NTA 

Too bad so sad. Dude shoulda ponied up to be next to his fiancé or moved himself. Nothing is free in life. Your offer was reasonable, and transactional as it should be. You're not his momma or the Goodwill. Lover boy needs to grow up or he's in for a bumpy entitled life.
Mother fucker is on his honeymoon and he ditched his wife with the peasants to go sit up front?

This feels like it's going to be a really short marriage. Who the fuck does that?

NTA, obviously
Nta, you did a nice thing by offering to sell it.
NTA.  About a year ago American offered me a first class upgrade and I asked if my wife could have a first class upgrade as well.  When they said no it only for me, I declined and sat with my wife in coach.  

That guy was an asshole for calling you an asshole.
The guy absolutely should have 1. Put his wife in first class if they could only upgrade one seat and 2. Offer to pay you the extra you paid for that seat.
NTA he showed his wife who he truly is. Too bad he didn't do it before the wedding
NTA. You did indeed do the right thing in NOT switching and in NOT taking any of his bullshit
NTA

Is getting really sad that people are acting so entitled to want to just take stuff for free. You paid for your seat. He should have stayed with his wife.
If they want to sit together he can switch and give up his upgrade to whoever she is next to
NTA. This guy accepted an upgrade and then just left his new wife in the back?!  That is a real asshole.
NTA

You paid for the seat. "Husband" was a AH for trying to scam an extra upgrade for free
NTA.

You paid for your seat. The groom was offered an upgrade and took it. If it was important to him to sit with his bride, then he should have declined the upgrade. I am sure there were single passengers who would have been delighted to move.
It’s his mistress, they booked separately, he’s a jerk for taking the upgrade either way if he already knew they could not sit together
NTA, he should have paid to upgrade or sat with his wife
100% NTA. 

  
Yes, it would have been nice if you'd felt inclined to switch seats. But it's also not your obligation or requirement. I've heard stories of people on their honeymoon thinking they're entitled to free things because somehow being newly wed means they're special. Life, unfortunately, doesn't work that way. If it was that important, they should have paid you for it. But you're never required to give what is yours, and you don't have to feel guilty about it.
LOL, he TOOK THE UPGRADE.  So clearly his priority wasn't sitting with his new wife.  NTA.
I don't give 1000 dollar wedding gifts to my close friends, imagine to a random stranger who is asshole enough to accept an upgrade while his new wife sits alone in economy. 
NTA at all
NTA! I alllllways get asked to change seats, even though I pay for mine in advance. I usually do but I’m not going to anymore. Thinking about putting a post it on my forehead on my Saturday flight that says, “don’t even ask, I’m not switching seats”
NTA. So you should have been nicer to his new bride than he was being?? Hmmm…
NTA
NTA - staying in the reserved seat you purchased is never the asshole move (unless instructed by crew member otherwise). No further explanation is necessary. 

The only time I ever ask for shuffling of seats is trading “like for like” (ie middle for middle, premium for premium) or my party offers to “downgrade” (“fellow traveler, would you take the window seat elsewhere so my wife can sit in your middle seat next to my aisle seat?”). People who do otherwise always try to guilt someone into giving them an upgrade - that’s shitty behavior.
NTA. Since when are you obliged to give up your seat to anyone. Tell him and your wife to get stuffed. NTA.
NTA

LOL. "Budget" honeymoon to Dubai, give me a fucking break.
NTA.  But he is!! He left his brand new bride in economy??! He could have declined the upgrade.
NTA. That guys marriage may end before the honeymoon is even over.
NTA. What you said to the young man was perfect, and I would be surprised if the marriage lasts with today's fickle temperaments.
NTA. He was basically asking some stranger to give him a $1000 wedding gift. That’s an insane thing to ask.
NTA- the other guy was- the nerve of people asking to switch seats that they know you pay for- I hope you said something to the FA. And what a jerk to not give his new wife the better seat, makes me think it was no honeymoon.
NTA, they have their whole lives to sit together, LOL
NTA he shouldn’t have accepted the upgrade. Also, if accepting the upgrade he should have given it to his wife. He’s the AH on two accounts.
NTA.

“He said that they were on a budget for their honeymoon. I congratulated once again and put in my earbuds. He muttered that I was an asshole. I said he was a prick for taking the upgrade instead of either sitting with his wife or giving it to her.

I told my wife about the incident and she thinks I should have done the nice thing.”

The “nice thing” of essentially giving away $1,000 aus to a complete stranger for their honeymoon? More like the stupid thing, imho. Unless it was a clearly random upgrade it might have been a scam, too, trying to prey upon someone else feeling more generous. 

If he wanted to sit next to his wife, I’m sure someone else in economy would have gladly traded for his upgraded seat and made it work.
NTA - that is some kind of entitlement lol.
Do you really need to ask?
I would have said if he can convince the stewardess to bump you to first the seat is all his. Only fair. NTA 




Your wife can go without $1000 if she wants you to do the right thing honey. 
Maybe he could change seats with whoever is sitting next to his wife if he wants to sit by her so bad on the honeymoon.
NTA And why didn't he switch seats with his new wife?
Omg. How do people not get that it’s NOT a dick move to stay in the seat you paid for!? No one HAS to be nice and give up their shit. Seriously, why are there so many of these nearly identical posts. It’s fine, stay in your seat. Don’t be “nice.” And don’t feel guilty so much that you need validation from strangers on the internet. For fucks sake.

NTA
NTA - People looking for free upgrades are the worst. Wanna sit together? Pay for it.
NTA
NTA. You were kind enough to say you'd give up your seat for her as long as you were compensated. He refused. There's nothing left to say.
NTA - your wife is enjoying the 30,000 foot view and waxing romantic because she wasn’t the one who’d have to sit in fucking economy on a 14-hour flight. I’m sure she’s a lovely lady but I doubt she’s so generous when it’s her ass sandwiched between randos back in steerage when she paid for comfort. Doesn’t make her a jerk, just makes her wrong.

The honeymooner though, is a giant asshole. The audacity required to even ask the question in the first place is unfathomable to me. My wife and I have occasionally gotten split upgrades. Typically they’re together or not at all, but it does happen. We just take turns. On our honeymoon we didn’t get offered anything, but if we had, I’d either have given it to her or turned it down to stay together. I *absolutely would not* have taken the upgrade for myself and then tried to badger paying customers to give me free shit out of their own pocket. Anybody who does that is an asshole, full stop.

Also, who goes to fucking *Dubai* for a honeymoon? Are you serious right now? That wouldn’t make a top-100 list of honeymoon destinations. Jesus.
NTA!!!  Sounds like someone booked last minute, couldn’t get seats together so they took what they could get and were relying on someone to be a fool and change so they could sit together. I’ve been there when people try to play the pity card, poor planning on your part doesn’t constitute an emergency on mine!
Yea, do the nice after this guy abandoned his wife for a little luxury?
Omg imagine your husband leaving you on your honeymoon for an upgrade!!! NTA!
No they’re the A for expecting you to give up your more expensive seat. Don’t care what their circumstances are if you can’t afford it then don’t upgrade.
NTA

>I said he was a prick for taking the upgrade instead of either sitting with his wife or giving it to her. 

This. A hundred times this.
I assume he changed again to economy so he can flight with his wife. Oh, he didn't? I'm shocked.
Nta. Why would you be expected to eat the cost for his wife to move seats? He was in the wrong for accepting the upgrade, then in the wrong for assuming you should eat the cost so he doesn’t look like the Ah he is. Notice no one ever asks a another Person to take the upgraded seat,
But demand ppl move for their convenience. Once he knew he couldn’t sit a his wife, he should have offered the seat to her or the person next
To her so he could sit w her
NTA.. The groom was.. What jerk doesn't sit with his wife on honeymoon upgrade or not
NTA. I think you’re wife would have allowed her to have the seat because it would be the easy and non-confrontational option, not the “nice” option. He was trying to take advantage of you. You paid for the seat, people can’t expect you to give it up for free just because they got married lol.
NTA as per usual. You’re not an AH for using a service you paid for, no matter the tantrums of entitled people who want it for free.
NTA
NTA. Firstly, it's your seat. Secondly, you paid a lot for that seat to be comfortable. You don't throw that money away for an entitled groom.
Lol no.. you're totally right. If they couldn't both be upgraded he shouldn't have accepted it
NTA
Just asked my hubby his opinion on this.

I set it up as a hypothetical

He said - "it goes to da bubbah" (we call eachother da bubbah) 

So we agreed we wouldnt take the upgrade cause I cant be sat next to strangers (severe anxiety) and he refuses to leave me in economy unattended...


I DIGRESS.

Na. 

I dont understand why the guy didnt think to give his new wife the upgrade. Or just pay or just sit together...
NTA. No discussion needed.
NTA. he can sit with his wife in the seats they were assigned or just pay for it. period. the entitlement of people on planes nowadays.
NTA WTF no way! Attention all passengers- if someone paid for their seat they do not owe you anything ever to switch for any reason. If they want to, great if not don’t get mad for either your poor planning or the airline F*ing up seating arrangements. 

People have nerve. He is a bad husband, good luck to his wife.
NTA - as you mentioned if sitting together was so important that he shouldn’t have switched.  What he wanted was his lady upgraded at your expense.  May they have a long life together 😂
NTA - no freaking way I would switch.
NTA absolutely. Your money, your seat. Honestly for a 14h flight, I wouldn’t even have accepted if he offered me a billion dollars to downgrade.
NTA - If he was on his honeymoon and he wanted to sit with his wife, he should have stayed in economy. It's ridiculously entitled to be upgraded for free and then demand that another person give up their seat that they paid so that they could both get free upgrades. 

I think you offered a good solution, if he didn't want for his wife to sit in your seat, why should you?
NTA. Who's to say 1) they were actually on their honeymoon and 2) they bought the Premium Economy and Economy seat in hopes that someone (you in this case) would just switch with them and they would save money at your expense.
Weird that you would even offer, considering the reason you bought the ticket in the first place. 

Even stranger is the fact that the husband would leave his wife for a 14hr flight, particularly on their honeymoon. And worst of all, is the fact that he would get mad at you for not accommodating him. 

Is this post even real?
NTA- why would you pay for some stranger to sit in your upgraded seat? F the entitled person who got mad at you
NTA.
#1. They weren't on a Honeymoon.  That was an attempted con job to guilt you to switch. Just asking you to switch to economy for no reason wouldn't work and he knew that.

#2. Even if they were on a honeymoon, you don't sit separately even if one of you gets an upgrade. That's ridiculous. 

#3. I'd say "This seat cost me an extra $1000. So you expect me to just throw that money away by sitting in economy? Seriously?"

#4. Ask him to show you on his phone some emails related to the wedding. There should be hundreds from booking things to bills to guests asking for details to congratulations. Demand to see some. If he refuses by saying their private, just tell him "Sorry your con job didnt work. Nice try."😁🖕  I still wouldn't switch even if he showed them though.😄
NTA. Never TA.

The only way you should ever be asked to switch a seat is if they are offering a better seat. Also, your definition of better. I know a lot of people prefer aisle, but if I have a window in the last row, your aisle 10 rows up is not a better seat.
NTA
i bet it wasnt their honeymoon
Agree, my boyfriend who travels a lot regularly passes on upgrades if we both aren’t upgraded when we travel together. I don’t mind flying economy so I always suggest he take it. He’s tall. But he always passes. Which honestly is a turn on. NTA.
I bet the honeymooners were offered one upgrade and the husband jumped and took it.
THIS!  These people always want to move forward into better seats.  They never want to move **back** to be able to sit together.  This was probably planned in advance.  Guilt someone into switching seats so wifey can move up.
>I'm sure the person sitting beside her would have loved an upgrade to premium economy. He was essentially asking you to pay for his wife's upgrade.

THIS RIGHT HERE!!! I noticed how mostly the people who want to switch seats are for upgraded or more comfortable seats. I've haven't a heard a story where someone on an aisle or window seats offers it to the middle seater instead😑
NTA “Ooh show me your wedding pics! You must have some on your phone?”
Absolutely this. I was in a similar situation where my bf and I didn't reserve seats in advance as we're money conscious and okay with not sitting next to each other to save money. Asked gate agent if there were any seats that were open side by side. Later informed no but did upgrade one of our seats to the front with more legroom. Person originally sitting next to me in regular seat was happy to swap to seat with legroom. I could never ask someone to swap their legroom seat for a regular seat... and this is only a price difference of <$100. Even if I was desperate enough to ask, the other person is fully within their right to say no.
I was on a much shorter and less glamorous flight this weekend. A family pushed into the line, the woman had boarding pass 8 and was trying to pull her husband and 2 young (6 and 3 ish) kids along. The gate agent put a stop to that nonsense and the woman abandoned her family to board early instead of waiting for family boarding at position 60.  Left hubby to deal with herding the kids and pulling the stroller to the gate check area himself - and the carry on.
Yes, I have once rejected the upgrade to business when they offered to only one of us.
Many years ago, I was living in the Far East and was sent on a business trip to Sing with a business class seat.I would have been flying back home on 14th of February which would have sucked somewhat for the UberMistress. So I bought her an economy class return to Sing and we stayed the weekend there. Now I checked with my firm's travel agent and it would have cost the firm more if I flew business out and economy back. Solution? Someone got a free seat swap to the front of the 'plane and I sat up the back with Mrs. Cabin crew thought I was a romantic and sent us some freebie drinks and food in the back. Everybody is happy.

Anyone who sits in comfort while SO sits at the back is by default the arsehole.
The new wife probably realized her new hubby is the AH. How presumptuous.
I get suspicious too. My brother has had a few fake honeymoons to get hotel upgrades.

OP you are NTA. If it was so important they sit together he could stay with his wife or talk to the airline.
He could have switched seat with his wife
I want to be a fly on the wall so bad because I just know he ruined their honeymoon by being a selfish prick and she’s PISSED. NTA OP!
On point. The guy is also the same person who asked everyone to pay for the honeymoon. Chivalry is dead I would fly coach with my wife, or send her to the good seat.
Not to mention what husband takes it and puts wife in the back?!? Idk but if I were hubbs, wife would get.
The thing you said happened to me once: I got called up to the gate desk and I thought oh crap I'm being bumped, but it was a guy with a first class seat whose wife was in coach next to my assigned seat, and they just wanted to ask me if I'd be willing to switch with him so he could sit in coach with his wife. I never answered "yes" so fast to a question.
Yeah, I thought the honeymoon could be a lie, too. My husband would have offered the chair to me, whereupon I would have declined and stay with him out of loyalty, after which we would both have come up with the brilliant idea to take the upgrade and take our turns, for instance, switch seats every 3 hours or so, so that both could have at least some time to stretch legs and sit comfortable and sleep (I cannot sleep in a normal plane chair, not even on long flights, which is a horror).
Exactly this. How is this dude’s problem becomes OP’s problem?? NTA at all. That guy and his entitlement.
How do we know it even was his honeymoon? He may have said that to get an upgrade
On a budget - yeah….Dubai is definitely where I would book my honeymoon if I was in a budget. I call BS on that statement too
Agree. They were on a budget honeymoon? Sorry but I'm not rich enough that I can throw away $1k.
Exactly didn't have to look far for someone who put my sentiment into words far better than I could. NTA.
Or he could have offered his wife's seat mate an impromptu upgrade. Then they could sit together, and start their marriage off with goodwill rather than stewing alone and calling others a-holes.
I think it's hysterical that the guy wasn't willing to give up his (free) premium seat to sit with his wife in economy....but somehow he's completely shocked that OP won't give up the premium seat that he paid for and move back to economy so two strangers could sit together.
Fuck that shit. If I'm on my honeymoon and I get offered an upgrade, I wouldn't go unless my partner got to go too.
This
I bet it wasn't their honeymoon. What kind of person leaves their wife to fly coach alone on their honeymoon?
Probably wasn’t on a honeymoon but a ruse to get sympathy points…glad it didn’t work!
Yeah, I doubt they had just gotten married

I'm sure the couple try to do this on every vacation they go on.  Buy one premium seat, one economy.  Claim to be just married, going on honeymoon.
Or maybe let his wife have the upgrade. NTA

Edit: correcting autocorrect
"Congratulations on your wedding, mate, but yeah, nah, I'm not gonna give you a $1,000 wedding gift."
If they even are newlyweds and not trying to be to scam an upgrade
yeah you want me to buy you a 1000 dollar wedding present and I've never even met you before and you could probably be lying about being on your honeymoon to begin with? hard pass
This is the answer.  NTA
LOL, exactly this! Who asks random people to give them $1000?

Like, I would give my mom the seat, sure. A stranger, no.
If it was even an upgrade. Isn’t there a common scam some people try where they book one seat in economy and one upgraded seat and try to guilt the person next to them in the better seats to let them sit with their spouse/kid or whatever?
Why do those people NEVER just try to switch their premium seat for the "crappy" seat by their travelling companion?  LOL Had a woman make a scene on a Delta flight to Rome.  I paid extra for the more legroom seats because my husband is 6 ft tall.  Pricey but totally worth it for him. A woman seated next to me insisted I switch so her "child" could sit with her.  The child while technically a "child" looked to be at least 20.  I declined and the "child" finally had to move back to her actual seat in the very back of the plane. 

Undaunted, she involved the flight attendant who didn't want to be bothered and tried to get me to move despite me saying no.  Finally, I snapped a pic of the FA and she asked why I did that and I told her I was emailing the airline about being harrassed to give up my seat and didn't want to get the wrong person in trouble.

Then I suggested the woman as the person seated on either side of her daughter to move up to the premium seat and she sit with her daughter-- and I kid you not she replied "Those are terrible seats, I don't want to sit back there."

The FA told her she would either have to move back with her daughter or sit down and stop bothering me.  She eventually did go back with her daughter and the woman who moved up was delightful (and said the daughter was absolutely dreadful).  I think I scared the FA because she was riduculously attentive the entire flight, LOL.
It truly astounds me that people think that someone would be willing to switch their good seat for a worse one. If it is SO important to sit together, the guy sitting next to you in the exit row should have offered his good seat to someone sitting next to his wife.
This. I am tired of people always assuming others will accommodate their flying situation just because.
No. Philip. 
That was my thought too. Dude was rightly betting “Will you move to squish section so my gf can sit with me?”, wasn’t going to work as well.
Lol - Yes, I like this line of convo 😂 “wow, me too! Look at us two guys ditching the wives for these prime upgraded seats - high five man, go us!” 😂😂
[deleted]
It may have been!

Well, prior to boarding anyway. Honeymoon was sure as hell over when he ditched her for the upgrade.
This. I've heard so many stories where someone will get the "better" of the seat options in their group, and then try to insult/guilt trip the people around them to let their "cheap seat members" join them because they "want to sit together".

You can always downgrade to sit with your family and give up your nicer seat. But nobody wants to do that, so they try to guilt trip you to sacrifice for them.
This exactly.  Sounds scammy, or slimey.  One of the two.

I mean, how did this guy 'get an upgrade' himself? They said 'hey lucky guy, we're bumping you to  premium just because'?

So let's say even everything is true, he took the upgrade, separating him from his bride.  Now he wants to bump her up to premium at someone else's expense? 

Taht's like looking at somone's watch and saying, hey, that's nicer than mine, can we trade? WTF?
I wonder if he even got upgraded or if they book one first class ticket and pull this scam every time they fly.
I woulda laughed in his face. You took an upgrade away from your new wife on your honeymoon? Bwaaa HA HA HA! You're ass is grass man.   

Then I wouldn't have shut up about it all flight. *tap tap* "Mate sorry to disturb you, but tell me again where your wife is sitting I want to record it for my friends"
my father would use it is our 25th anniversary line to get upgrades with the airline. he said it would work about 25% of the time, but he had status. 

he also always told the restaurant it was his birthday to get a free drink / dessert / etc. he said that always worked. 

I no longer talk to him.
I agree.
It was probably a girlfriend, not a wife!
If they're happily married every day might be their honeymoon ;)
I so bet you're right.
Oh it was their honeymoon alright… their honeymoon upgrade scam!!!
I was on Delta from LAX in first. A couple got on the flight and the husband excitedly told the flight attendant. She congratulated them and kindly allowed them to sit in the seats they paid for.
Not after this it wouldn’t be.

“Wow, upgraded that’s great, okay honey you sit back with the cattle I’ll be up front in comfortable luxury class…love you❤️.”
Yeah who goes to Dubai for a honeymoon?
On their honeymoon! Their honeymoon!

I would consider it if we'd been married for years and she insisted, but your fucking honeymoon? You sit with your spouse if you have any interest in them remaining your spouse.
My husband gets upgraded regularly too.  He is big (6 foot 7inches, about 260lbs) I tell him to take the upgrade.  That way he is comfortable, and I hopefully end up with someone smaller that doesn't take up all my leg space.  Win-Win!
My husband and I fly a couple times a year lately but we don’t insist on sitting together. I am much taller so i pay for a premium seat and he’s happy with economy as long as it’s an aisle seat. If there are premium seats available for both of us together we do it. If there aren’t, we sit separately. 

I’d not mind economy myself if they gave an actual humane amount of legroom. But I almost always end up scrunched and I’m grateful most flights I take are only an hour or two. Because it’s a LONG hour or two.
That man needs an upgrade to husband!
The thing about refusing upgrades is that if you get bumped up to Business because Economy is overbooked, then refusing the upgrade may get you bumped off the flight. Granted, this is unlikely if you have high enough status to be offered the upgrade in the first place. But talking to the cabin crew about wanting to trade down in order to sit with someone in Economy is a much better bet, since it is more than likely that whoever your traveling companion is sitting next to would accept a Business class seat with enthusiasm.
My wife and I would never take a solo upgrade, why would we want to not sit together?????
I’m thinking business trip that the wife tagged along on…… NOT a honeymoon!
There’s absolutely no way that a ticket agent who knew they were on their honeymoon offered only one upgrade.  I smell a scam.  
Great way to start the marriage.
I think he took it with the goal of getting the switch. I think the couple figured he would be more willing to switch with a woman than a guy, trying to work the sympathy angle for sure.
OMG, he is such is an asshole.

Even if it was personally his upgrade (from his own points, whatever) who ditches their wife to sit alone in the back to get better seats on your *honeymoon?* The whole point is supposed to be quality time together.

I hope he had the cold sex free trip he deserves.
yse but the wife gets to upgrade her husband for another guy still in economy who didn't ditch his wife for the 4 inches offered by the steward
It was an upgrade, so probably not planned.  The dude was still an AH (2X actually - once for taking the upgrade, and twice for thinking someone would give up their seat.)
Sometimes my husband and I book the window and aisle seats in the same row hoping the middle seat will stay empty. But if someone winds up in it we always offer for them to switch with one of us so we can sit next to each other. Win win!
On Southwest?  I've seen similar behaviour many times, when the person with A Group boarding "reserves" a seat for their C Group friend by putting a bag in the seat next to them.  SWA has an explicit policy against that - they should both board in C Group if they want to sit together - and I once saw a B Group passenger take that bag, put it in the overhead, and sit right down in the "reserved" aisle seat.  The "reserver" kicked up a fuss, but the flight attendant backed him up and he got to sit in row 3 instead of 33.
All I have to say is that I'm grateful that no large airlines (that I know of) in Australia use boarding groups this way. 

Everyone gets an assigned seat, priority is given to those who need assistance, and boarding groups are only used for organising boarding on wide bodies. Flying costs more, but there's little to no ambiguity and less fights.
WOmen can be dicks too!
I have my husband take it, as he is tall, I am short and don’t need extra legroom, and (#1 reason) I just want to be left in peace to read for the whole flight.
Also, his poor new wife. Ditched on the way to their honeymoon!
Heh, reminds me of when I got an Uber Pool once and a couple got in, the guy sat up front and she sat in back with me.  I was a janitor on my way home so when they guy asked if I'd switch I said "sorry man, I'm really sore right now" and he said, "well I'd really like to sit with my date" and then his date and I *both* responded "bro **you** ordered a Pool"
You do realise that Dubai is an extremely common stopover point for flights from Australia to Europe, because there are no direct flights from east coast Australia to Europe as it is currently not physically or economically possible for airlines to run those flights direct?

Regardless of where OP was finishing their trip, they would refer to MEL-DXB specifically as people then switch to a different plane for wherever their final destination is.
Then why take the upgrade if you're just going to give it back.
Brilliantly stated. 100% NTA
Very good point. He already sucks as a husband.
Yup, fuck the upgrade, if I can't sit with my family that's a downgrade, homeboy just got married and he already sucks as a husband.
Exactly, it's 100% a lie to try to gather sympathy.

If it's so important to sit together - go offer your premium seat to the person sitting next to your wife.
What kind of guy leaves their wife alone when offered the choice to stay with her or upgrade alone in general? Not okay in my books. I would never, take the upgrade if my partner was left alone in economy.
I mean, if my husband who is 6’2 for an upgrade on our honeymoon I would have insisted he take it because he’s so miserable trying to fit in a regular seat. I’d much rather have him happy and rested when we land by getting actual comfort and rest than just pretending that my company makes him happier than being comfortable.
You are probably right. And they likely  agreed between them to leave the wife back in economy because it will pull the heart strings more to have a new bride back in economy by herself. More likely to get someone to switch than if it had been the groom left in the back. Just my opinion.
Good point!!! Never crossed my mind, but that could easily be the case.
Yup it’s a common scam. Preying on others to be empathetic. If he really wanted to sit with his wife, he would have changed seats with the person sitting beside his wife at the back of the plane
I wish that I could give you more than one upvote. Taking the FA's picture and letting her know why was a brilliant move.
😂 good for you, the audacity and entitlement from some people I swear!
Phil? Phil Conners?! I thought that was you!
And your mother's maiden name?
I know I know hahaha I was just on another thread where people were talking about why we engage in these fake posts.
This is an old scam. People say it all the time to try and switch.
There may not have even been an upgrade. "Hey honey, let's book separately and I'll book premium. When we get on the plane, I'll get the person next to me to switch."
I just came back from my honeymoon. If my husband had ditched me to take an upgrade it would have been a very, very bad time for him 😂 I don’t think OP is TA at all!
Either that or the couple purposely did that and were taking advantage of the small percentage of nice people who would have said yes, expecting a free upgrade.that could explain why he was pissed that not surprisingly op asked for them to pay up for the difference in priced seating. 

I means seriously, why would someone who is genuinely nice get pissed about not getting a free upgrade? Sure maybe a little annoyed or disappointed but to call op an ah?
My dad pulled that stunt before the honeymoon and made it unscathed… well, not unscathed but the honeymoon wasn’t over anyhow. 


 They’re divorced now tho, before you ask 😂 
That happened to me on a flight from LA to Sydney-but in reverse. A man in economy plus asked me (in economy)to switch seats so he could sit with his wife (who was next to me). I said, "Are you sure?"  Yep. So I got a free upgrade.
It always blows my mind that people are like this. Anytime I've tried to switch to be next to a friend, we always gave up the better seat.
The fact that he muttered "asshole" to OP makes me think OP made the right move by denying him.
I have done that. I booked my flight first since boyfriend wasn't sure if he could go. I was in Premium Economy. When he booked he was in Economy. When we got on the plane, I asked the person next to him if they were okay to move up to Premium Economy. They were more than happy to move up and I was happy to be next to my man. Neither of us would dream to try to get someone else to give up their better seats for free. 
if you have airline status, some still do complimentary upgrades, but it sometimes has caveats that the companion ticket would not be eligible.
that is certainly a possibility...

funny how the folks in these stories never seem to at least split seat time...or visit the exiled spouse
horrible people
People like that are the reason the restaurant I used to work at would make us ID people for the bday dessert and only give it for free within a week haha
If the honeymoon story were true Dubai would be a stopover. Most flights from Australia to Europe need a stopover in either SE/E Asia or the Middle East because it is a long fucking way from Australia to Europe.
No way it was their honeymoon.  The guy was lying to get his girlfriend or wife a free upgrade from some gullible sap dumb enough to buy that story.
That's what I was thinking. This marriage won't last long.

But I'm pretty sure he was lying.
Especially if your any kind of "real" man.
Exactly, wife back there already is wondering if she made a right decision, or they trying to find a sucker, together, who would have given up his seat!
Plus you can pretend you're going home with a stranger you met on the plane
Of course it is.
If that was true, when it didn't work he would have then went back to economy. Seems like he cared more about his comfort than not abandoning his wife on his honeymoon . . .
I can literally hear the convo..."don't worry, I'll find an idiot to switch with you"

NTA
I was on a SW flight, took a seat and the woman across the isle had her eye on it for her family member boarding.  She called to the flight attendant and said that seat was being held for XYZ person, etc.  The SW flight attendant said sorry, first come, first served.  She looked at me and I adjusted myself in the seat and went on with my  life.  Woman scowled the rest of the flight, as if I had kicked her dog.  Lol....
Yes, southwest. On our flight out there was a bachelorette party saving seats for other members without the upgraded passes. No one wanted to sit by those sour looking faces anyway.
I am disabled (mobility) and obese. I travel solely with SW. I am able to preboard with my companion, and I pay for an extra seat because of my size . The airline gives a little reserve sign for the second seat. So far so good with no one giving me a hard time.
As a woman myself, I think that women in general (not me, of course) are more dickish than men.
right? it would have been super easy for him to offer his seat to the person sitting next to his wife and voila! they'd have been sitting together.

even if it was going from aisle to middle for the extra leg room, some people would be willing to take the trade.
"Good news, honey! I just booked a massage!"

"Fantastic! A couples massage sounds great!"

"....who said anything about a couples massage? I'll see you in a few hours, babe!"
I think that's their point. Nobody from Australia is flying to Dubai as their final destination, they're going to Europe (which for the most part, is 100% NOT a budget trip! Look at the exchange rate for AUD to EUR...)
so you can \*insure\* you get to sit together. but 95% of people who take the upgrade are absolutely trying to get someone nearby to \*also\* give up theirs.
cuz you want to try and guilt some stranger into switching
A few weeks ago I was traveling with my nine-year-old daughter to Europe. Late booking, so we sat in two different rows and not next to each other. We were number two and three on the upgrade list, and of course there were only two upgrades available. My daughter did not want to sit alone up front (would have been a win for both of us, if you know what I mean 😉), so I traded the upgrade to the guy sitting next to her.

It never occurred to me that I’d take the upgrade and leave her by herself in the back. Aside from the fact that my wife would have killed me, why would I make my child someone else’s problem for the next ten hours?

But getting the upgrade gave me some currency to trade to make sure I was sitting next to her.
OP should have said congratulations and asked to see the pics just to see how long he had to scroll to find them
Ned? Ned Ryerson? I have missed you sooooo much.
I laughed loudly at that. I'm Nancy by the way.
Morgan
and SIN number?
Also, name of childhood pet and first grade teacher?
In order to get the upgrade in the UK you have to show your wedding certificate at check in and it has to be within 6months so yeah I'd have asked to see it. And then promptly still declined 🤣
I bet it works quite a bit. Here's the thing though, if I was given an upgrade for free and somebody asked me, I might be nice and do it for them. But if I paid for it? Yeah forget it. There was a reason I paid for the seat. It's not my problem if you aren't willing or able to pay for the seat also.
I didn’t know this was a thing! The *only* time my husband and I have been separated on a flight was on our way home from our honeymoon. Everything was in economy and honestly I was too exhausted to even ask someone to switch but I did find it amusing.
I had someone across the isle from me point to a toddler next to her in the middle middle and ask to switch seat with me (my row of three seats were empty) so their little one could lay down. I am a bleeding heart so I said yes. I get up and she comes and lays across the three seats
herself. The toddler she was pointing to wasn't even her freaking kid it was the guy at the end of her row. The elderly gentleman in the row behind me who saw the exchange chewed her out until she got up after about 30 minutes and went back to her original seat.
I'm sure t was a scam they pulled all the time. They probably took turns riding economy.
Also, they're flying to Dubai, are we expected to believe they're on THAT tight of a budget? Big NTA, OP
I do it at hotels hoping for a free bottle of wine! 
All I've ever gotten was a box of chocolates and rose petals. Definitely gave that hotel a 5 star review
I agree. When they have upgraded me on the rare occasion they have always asked for people who are flying solo to come forward before they did the upgrade.
Definitely a scam... possibly scamola.
Turns out, the real saps were the wives we made along the way.
I think this is the most likely scenario.
That was a classy couple!
That's how it should be.
Because they're not doing it to be next to the friend, they're doing it to try and get a free upgrade.
If he wasn't before... he was afterwards.
Probably, but I also just tend to take AITA shit at face value as presented because getting into the hypotheticals that I can't confirm would just be a wild ass shell game.
Hello Clive Bixby, you look mighty fetching today!
Awww … that’s so romantic. I love playing games like this - wish more people thought it was fun or funny. 😄
But if he went back, he'd basically be admitting to doing this.
I'm amazed at the balls on some people.
Exactly. If the objective was to be seated together, then after his request to OP was quite reasonably rejected, then the next obvious step is to try to switch with whoever was next to the wife. Much more likely you'll get someone willing to switch up rather than switch down. Because...they want to sit together, right? *Instead* dude sits there, comfortably ensconced in his upgraded seat for the next 14 hours, grumbling at the injustice. He's *so* angry...on behalf of his wife, lol. I bet he could 'barely enjoy' his premium meals too. What a prince.
Lol, yes, he clearly cared more about being comfortable himself then  being with his wife on his honeymoon.

Yet even though he dosen't care about his own wife, he expects OP to.

"Hey man, I don't care about my wife, but will you gift her $1000 so I don't leave her sitting by herself? It's got to be rough having married me, she deserves to have someone else pamper her since it's not like I'm going to be making any sort of effort in this relationship. Strangers are her best hope."
"Pack your bags honey, I just won the lottery!"

"Great, where to?"

"I don't care, just get the hell out!"
I read it as them trying to say that the story is bogus because no one is flying to Dubai for a honeymoon because it’s expensive there.

The OP references the MEL-DXB portion of their trip because that is a distinct flight. Anyone going to Europe would change planes for the second leg, to a different flight number so any upgrades for the second leg are a separate process and seat mates would change. There’s plenty to question about the supposed honeymooner’s story, trying to ping them on having a honeymoon in Dubai ain’t it.

I’m well aware of the exchange rate as an Australian currently in Europe, but it’s hardly surprising for honeymooners to go to Europe but with a strict budget that means while the trip can happen, premium seats on what is already an expensive route are beyond the what can be afforded.
Ask him to take off the ring and see the tan line lol
Underrated comments, right here.  I wish you fortune and prosperity!
My sin number is 7.

That's right, all of them.
Social Insecurity Number?
I think you want tax file number TFN for Australia ha ha
What a quality husband though, left his wife in economy so he could ride premium. On their way to their honeymoon LOL
Wow, which UK airline gives free upgrades for newlyweds?
if the answer is going to be no .. then why even bother asking for the certificate?
If I were in OPs shoes, I would've eventually straight up asked the dude why he doesn't offer his upgraded seat to whoever his wife is stuck next to instead of trying to guilt me out of a grand.

If this is all true and not a scam, my dream scenario is that whoever his wife is sitting next to on this flight helps her join the mile (km?) high club, because I love mess.
Right? And 14 hours? Oh hell no! There a reason I upgraded bro 😎 lmfaoooo.
Years ago my wife got upgraded to first class from the US to Amsterdam on a 747 and left me in economy. I was happy for her. She said she'd come and check on me later. It was just about 30 minutes before we landed that she came back wasted saying she was sorry but she was having such a good time drinking and talking to the person next to her that she forgot. We both started laughing. I was very glad she had such a good time.
I was separated from my new husband on our honeymoon years ago. I was thrilled. His insanely loud snoring became someone elses problem and I slept in peace.
Once years ago my husband and I were returning from a trip to Alaska. For him it was business. I just went along to see Alaska. He got an upgrade on the way home, but I didn't. This was on United. I think we were both 1K flyers at the time but he paid a higher fare. I was near the front of Economy Plus. They were serving hot fudge sundaes in First Class and about halfway through the flight one of the FAs brought me the sundae my husband had declined so I could have it. I was amused and delighted. The people around me were all "he should have given you the upgrade" but I was perfectly OK with the way things went, even without the sundae.
And? OP already knows he was hoping OP would give up their seat for his wife beacuse *he asked for OP's seat for his wife.* Cat's out of the bag on that. 

He looks much worse sitting the whole 14 hour flight in first class with his wife back in economy after admitting it was their honeymoon. Being a public asshole to his new wife isn't going to make him look better? 

He'd look better if after OP said no he said "Okay, well I can't leave my new wife in the back alone so I'm going to switch with her/go back to economy."
Alternatively, if the purpose was for them both to enjoy the upgrade and they didn't have extra cash, they could have shared it by switching seats every couple of hours or so.
ngl took me a sec, but gg
so I can report your anxiety
SIN = Canadian SSN :)
For better, for worse, for richer, for poorer, in sickness and in health, to love and to ch—holy shit is that an open seat in premium???
It could have been planned. They both thought if groom takes the upgrade and asks the person next to him to swap for his new bride, the person next to him will of course give up their seat for honeymooners.

Because only assholes will deny newlyweds. They are special and important people. (/s)

(OP is of course NTA).
And he has the nerve to call OP TA, when it's so obvious. Just wow.
If I were she, I’d be making appointments with divorce lawyers when I got back home.
That's why i think it's planned. The husband is asking thinking OP would be more willing to swap for a woman than her asking "can my husband sit here"
I have been married 31years, and if only one upgrade was possible, I would insist my husband take it, because he's tall and has back problems. He would want me to take it, because he likes to pamper me, but I would win. But mostly, when we plan trips, we get our upgrades together. Neither of us would give up a paid for upgrade, no matter how good the sob story. Dude is definitely NTA
I would have been livid.
Not only was it very unlikely to be their honeymoon , it’s also very possible they’re not even married!
I ounce rode business to Australia while girlfriend sat economy 30h, I used miles and she got her trip payed by the institution, I just tagged along for her conference. Was a very nice trip, Singapore slings was flowing.
it may have been he had status for the upgrade and wife did not. but yea, could have at least offered to switch.

leaving wife in economy is not nearly as bad as what I witnessed when i flew back from fiji though.
They may have decided together to switch seat hakway through or something if they couldn't suckered someone into switching.
We got increased leg room upgrade from Emirates but not a class change for ours.
To see if they are trying to scam me.
That's the thing that gets me. The audacity of being a dick about someone not willing to give up a seat that they paid a significant amount of money for for your benefit and for nothing in return, just seems to be entitled and rude as hell. 

Op sounds like they were polite and they offered to give up the seat but made it very clear that the seat had monetary value and if they were to give up the seat they wanted to be made whole. Nothing about that is unreasonable.

For the record, a thousand Australian dollars is equivalent to $680 us dollars. That's actually a fair bit of money to expect someone to just give away. For the gamers out there, that's like giving away a brand new PS5 and 3 or 4 games.
Omg that's so sweet and nice of you. I would remember that forever <3
You are a class act!! ❤️
You, sir, are a keeper.
Many years ago now, we'd had a two week trip around New Zealand with our sons who were 9 and 10 at the time. I used some points to upgrade my wife from economy to business class (no premium economy back then) from Christchurch to Sydney. She ended up sitting with us half the flight (it was pretty empty). Lol.
Babes, I didn’t know you had a Reddit account. Please bring olive oil I’m making pesto
He needs to see a sleep dr and be checked for apnea
Most airlines don't allow that. Sometimes they will let you switch one time  but usually before service starts.
Oooo, SIN! I like that better!
That makes more sense, thank you. Lol.
🤣🤣🤣
Why should I give a rat's ass if someone's a newlywed unless they're my friends? I'd take a picture for them or something like that, but giving them a seat worth $$$$?  Nah, bro.   
  
(Now I'd consider something like getting bumped from a flight for a soldier or a bereaved person, but that comes through the official announcements so not a scam.)
Years ago, I had saved for a premium seat by the window in late flight. I was working a double as a nurse's aide from 11p-3pm before the flight. I was only making $8/hr at the time. I had a couple try to pull the same thing on me. 

I politely declined. The husband wouldn't leave me alone about it. I told him I'd had to wipe an ungodly amount of old people asses and clean up so much explosive diarrhea to pay for this seat. And started telling him about some of the worst ones in graphic detail. He shut the fuck up and ended up switching seats with his wife.
This makes me think of the people I always see on trips to resorts, where my family often likes to vacation...inevitably I will see *at least* one bride each time, if not more, in the airport wearing a tiara, sash and/or "I'm the bride!!" t-shirt.

Look, I totally get being excited and all that. It's - for most people - a once-in-a-lifetime event. But the people at the airport are total strangers to you. There is zero reason to tell them you're getting married or on your honeymoon unless you want to show off. 

Or, of course, score freebies.
They may not have even been newlyweds.
Use the wifi on the plane to send out emails for consultations 😂
Hopefully eligible for annulment
if it was the honeymoon an annulment would have been fine.
Usually I give seat switching stories a little benefit of the doubt. A couple years ago we booked a flight overseas well in advance to visit my husband’s family. We paid for upgraded seating and picked our seats together. About a month before our flight we got notice that it would be a different plane but the price point of our seats would be the same. We didn’t think anything about it until two days before when we looked and the four of us were scattered about the cabin. I contacted the airline and basically said it was unacceptable because my kids were special needs and HAD to be next to a parent for a flight that long. I was told I could ask passengers on the plane if we could switch but the flight was full. I was not happy with that and was told “they PAID to sit where they were” and that the airline would not rearrange the seating chart. Probably not what happened here but it is something I keep in mind. 

Just to finish the story- after seven hours of playing phone tag and being on hold with various people I finally got ahold of someone on their disability services team. I was told I should have contacted them when booking the tickets as that’s when they’d be involved with making sure the boys were seated with a parent, but the best they could do was have me get there early and ask a gate agent to ask people to switch. I said the only reason I hadn’t is the airline policy stated that if seats were changed it would be highest priority to have children seated with their parents. The agent said that is correct but only applies to children 14 and under…when I cut in “THEY’RE SEVEN!”She paused and asked for their birthdays then told me to watch for an email. They somehow had all four of us sitting together the next day and while I feel bad for whoever was removed from the seats they put us in there was no way I was going to trust that someone was going to give up sitting next to *their* family last minute.
Dude, if I bargain shop, I could get the PS5 and like half a dozen good games for that.

(I'm American too and yeah, $680 tossed down the shitter to give a complete stranger a luxury experience is dumb)

I would MAYBE consider it if they'd, for an example, forgotten their son at home on Christmas and that seat was the only way they could get home to him to make sure he's safe and not getting his fingers bitten off one by one by Joe Pesci because the local cops are inept.

(I'll also take this moment to note that at least Kate McCallister offered up her earnings AND the cost of the ticket and still had to settle on riding in a van with a polka band)

(And another thing, what the fuck is wrong with you, lady? Are you trying to wind up in a freezer in a Sheboygan basement?!)
And of course, the "groom" expects others to understand they're on a budget...but never for a moment stops to consider that other people might be too.
Last month I bought a car for $750 US. If I paid that much for a seat I wouldn't be about to give it up.
For knitters, that's enough yarn for a dozen sweaters and maybe an afghan.
That's very nice of you to say. I thought I was just doing what anyone would do.
Good shout. But also be prepared for just having a snoring partner (some of us just naturally sound like an elephant with hayfever)
Thats his new wife's problem, not mine.
Might depend on what the perks are of the better seat. If it’s just space, no big deal. If there’s free food and drink, only one person is entitled to that so they wouldn’t allow switching after service starts.
Years ago I received an AirNZ upgrade from premium economy to business on a long haul flight, but my husband and daughter didn’t. I took the upgrade (lying flat overnight - joy!), but asked the steward if my husband could come up after takeoff and I’d have dinner with my daughter and swap back after.  He said that would be fine, but if I wanted he would tell my husband that he couldn’t!  (What a sweetie!) We swapped after takeoff, I had a nice dinner with my daughter, got her settled in and finally regained my seat after my husband finished indulging in the business dinner and drinks.
Or even married. I know a couple who tries to pull this for free stuff wherever they go — hotels, restaurants, theme parks, so they can “feel special”

They are two of the most annoying, entitled people you’ve ever met.
Right, the whole economical ride I'd be figuring that shit right out!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
I’m sorry this happened to you.  According to the APPR (Air Passenger Protection Rights - in Canada), the airline must seat only 1 parent with each child.

given the plane swap, it was their obligation to move pax around, and not your task.

im happy to read that they did comply in the end.
Yes it was a stress but it all worked out! As far as I understand, when we booked through American Airlines it somehow failed to flag the children as children in the British Airways system. 

What was really annoying about the experience was the “someone else can deal with the problem” attitude everyone on the phone had. I don’t think anyone actually listened as I mentioned they were seven years old multiple times and nobody caught that they weren’t flagged, even the person who ended up getting it taken care of had ignored their ages when I initially said them, but I guess they probably deal with difficult customers all day long trying to game the system. I’m sure when we showed up at the gate something would have happened as it seemed against EVERY policy in place, (plus I doubt any passenger would want to deal with an autistic first grader sitting next to them for twelve hours with their parent across the plane) but I had no desire to drive three hours to the airport, sit on a plane for five hours then run to the gate on our tight layover for the agent to sort something out last minute- which is what was suggested. That just seemed like extra stress for everyone. 

I just advise everyone to check to ensure seating arrangements are acceptable immediately if they are informed of a plane change now. I know some of the “extra leg room” seats are next to regular seats and it would be easy for a couple to get separated in this scenario.
She knew John Candy was a good dude.
She's got her own earrings. A whole shoebox full of 'em... DANGLY ones
I was a major snorer. I got tested for apnea. Turned out, I was just fat and any position my body was in put too much weight on my lungs. My sister was the first person to comment on the fact I no longer snore. We don't even live together lmao!
Ah ok. I've never had a non-economy flight so I wouldn't know! I was just going off switching being allowed because they were asking the question of OP. In that case they either needed to buy OP's seat (which was a very fair offer OP didn't need to make), decide who was getting the perk and shut up about it, or give the better seat to the person next to rude guy's wife.
No doubt that couple also likes to pretend it's their birthday whenever they go out to eat, right?
Yeah, a 14 hour flight stuck in economy gives her a lot of time to plan.
AITA for telling my parents I didn't have a kid, they did, and they need to take care of her not me?
My parents had me (15f) when they were 18 and 19. They always made it so obvious they resented being parents so young and added to that they never tried to be good parents. I typically spend most of my time at friends houses. I don't have extended family to rely on, they disowned my parents for having me so young, so friends houses were a positive in my life that made me feel more comfortable than being at home with my parents.

My parents never did the typical parent stuff like helping with homework or showing up to support me at school. I don't think they ever attended a parents conference for me. They ignored a lot of stuff I needed to get signed and I'd have to get right in their face on the last day to get signatures. My birthday and Christmas have never been a big deal or celebration. They do celebrate their wedding anniversary but that's a them thing.

When they told me two years ago they were expecting a baby it really surprised me but then it hurt because sometimes they said stuff that made me feel like I didn't exist. Like how they were SO excited to have a baby and how they couldn't wait to be parents. A friend of my mom's did remind her of me but then she and dad said I was basically the too early practice run and this was the real deal. When my sister was born they were so attentive to her that I ceased to exist completely. I got sick and my school was trying to call someone to pick me up early but they ignored the calls and when I got home they had taken the baby out for a family day. When they got home they hadn't even realized the school called because they turned off their phones to "enjoy family time".

My mom quit her job a month after my sister was born. She wants to be a SAHM and she and dad want at least one more kid. My dad leaves work early on Fridays so he can spend more time with the family (mom and sister). My parents tried to have another kid for over a year and mom isn't pregnant yet so they're jumping to fertility treatments. They told me I need to watch my sister for a few hours every week while they attend those appointments and they gave me this detailed list of stuff she needs and what I'm going to do with her. I told them I won't and that they had her so they need to take care of her because she's not my kid. My parents told me it's a few hours a week and not a huge deal. Dad told me I need to look at it as paying back all they did for me. I said no and told them they don't give a crap about me so why would I want to help them.

AITA?
Welcome to /r/AmITheAsshole. Please view our [voting guide here](https://www.reddit.com/r/AmItheAsshole/wiki/faq#wiki_what.2019s_with_these_acronyms.3F_what_do_they_mean.3F), and remember to use **only one** judgement in your comment.

OP has offered the following explanation for why they think they might be the asshole:

 > I told my parents I didn't have a kid, they did, and they need to take care of her. Might be over the top to being asked to babysit for a few hours a week and maybe if they were better I'd be more willing but I know it's not my sister's fault and I don't spend time with her or focus on her so maybe I'm TA because I'm tossing a chance to do it (which I don't want).

Help keep the sub engaging!

#Don’t downvote assholes!

Do upvote interesting posts!

 [Click Here For Our Rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/AmItheAsshole/about/rules) and [Click Here For Our FAQ](https://www.reddit.com/r/AmItheAsshole/wiki/faq)

##Subreddit Announcements

Follow the link above to learn more

---

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose/?to=/r/AmItheAsshole) if you have any questions or concerns.*

*Contest mode is 1.5 hours long on this post.*
Tell them you’ll do it if they can name your favorite food, favorite color, and best friend. When they can’t, tell them you’ll be giving their baby exactly as much attention as they have given to you over the years. Give them that wake-up call. They clearly need it. NTA.
NTA - Neglecting to pick you up when you are sick and calling your life a “practice run” is such a horrible thing to get from your parents, and I’m sorry they have neglected you.
NTA

> My parents told me it's... not a huge deal.

Yeah, well, neither is learning to be satisfied with the children you **already have**.
NTA.  They clearly just see you as a babysitter and it sounds like they couldn’t even do the bare minimum for you when you were growing up.  
Tell them you are paying them back, in the same coin. You are ignoring and refusing to parent their child as they ignored and refused to parent you.

Simple as that.
[removed]
NTA start planning your escape now. Also tell your teachers or guidance counselor about your home life. 

Tell your parents flat out you will abandon your younger sibling and then call the police if they try to force you to babysit. Kid they are already neglecting you and making your life a living hell, what motivation could you possibly have to watch their child? Instead focus on getting certified in a trade or getting into college and getting out of there when you turn 18.
NTA, and if they leave, call the cops on them for abandonment.
NTA. NTA. Fuck your selfish garbage excuses for parents. Sorry for you to have a bad place to be.
>Dad told me I need to look at it as paying back all they did for me.

They did the bare minimum to keep you alive. That's not magnanimous. You don't owe them anything. NTA.
NTA. This sounds like my parents but without all the drugs and alcohol and affairs and literally abandoning me to be homeless at 17 lol I am 10 years older than my brother and legit raised him for many years until my mom cleaned herself up. They still don’t cherish me whatsoever and my brother can literally do no wrong. Not his fault though. It seems like he has it good but honestly his golden child position is just as hard as my black sheep position. It’s not your job at all and it’s not fair to you at all. I have 3 daughters and if I want my oldest to babysit I offer to pay her and I ask her. The only time she’s expected to help is when someone is sick or we are in a jam but that’s what families do. It’s not fair to you though to be used as free childcare for two people who clearly don’t know how to be loving parents to you. Makes me very angry for you.
Look at my username.

Now believe me when I tell you, you DESERVE TO BE LOVED JUST FOR BEING YOU. You don’t owe your parents anything for having you. My mom had me at 19 as an oops baby, so I totally understand where you are coming from, but even my parents didn’t neglect me the way you are being treated. 

NTA
NTA

"Dad told me I need to look at it as paying back all they did for me. I said no and told them they don't give a crap about me so why would I want to help them."

Your answer was perfect and the fact they called you their 'trial run' was honestly disgusting. While I would caution you not to take this out on your sister, you owe them absolutely nothing.
NTA.  You didn’t ask to be born.  They could have given you up for adoption as it seems your grandparents didn’t care.   You owe them NOTHING except respect, as in behave yourself.   You are not your sisters keeper, let mom and dad deal with it.  I wish that there was someone you could turn to and get out.  Study hard.  Get a good job, go to trade school, college or the military when you are old enough.  I wish you the best of luck
You're NTA for refusing to watch your sister. She's their responsibility, and it's unfair for them to expect you to take on that role.
>Dad told me I need to look at it as paying back all they did for me

Their legal obligation that they *chose*? Lmao, that's not your debt to pay. I'd also ask them how they paid back their parents for all they did for them lol
Why do they need to leave your baby with you? They seem so attached I'm surprised they would. Do you think they would try to leave their baby with you? I would leave the house before they even have the chance (if possible). Don't give them a choice. Also tell them that leaving a baby with a minor is considered child neglect and a reason to call CPS.
Also I’d like to add you don’t have to “pay them back” you are their child. It’s their responsibility to care for you. The freaking audacity man! I’d like to say some things to then parent to parent -_-
I was not a whole lot older than them when my husband and I had our first kid. Were we prepared? No. Did we feel old enough? No. Did we have any idea what the fuck we were doing? Hell no. But we decided to keep the baby, and the moment we made that choice, we made the choice to show up. Show up at birth classes, show up for doctors appointments, show up to the meetings we had to have because people didn't think we could raise a kid. Then we showed up at school, showed up at parent teacher meetings, showed up for plays and concerts and fairs and events. When you decide to have a baby, you're making a promise to show up. You owe that to a kid who didn't ask to be born.

We didn't have a lot of money but we tried to not let that stop our kid having the childhood we thought she deserved. We were in a different place mentally and financially when we had our second kid, and in a way it was having a completely different experience of having a baby, but I can't imagine ever saying to her that she was a practice run. We made sure to try to give her as much time with us without her sister as she needed. She's 15 now and we have more positive interaction with her in a week than I had with my parents in a year at that age.

Sometimes parents are young and unprepared, but that's not an excuse to give a kid a shitty life. Don't buy their shit and don't let them guilt you. They keep wanting babies without accepting the responsibility or work that comes with them. All of this is their problem, not yours.
Only three more years OP. NTA
JFC you don't owe them shit! To claim that you owe them for the lousy treatment they've given you is an insult and beyond narcissistic of your father. This is how narcissists talk, acting like giving you the bare minimum is some favor to you and not what they're obligated to give you by law.

I'm sorry you have shitty parents but the silver lining is that you've become a self-sufficient person who is capable beyond your years. You have a head-start in life because of the things they haven't given you, because you know you are your own source of success. 

If there is another adult, grandma, aunt or parents of friends who would let you live with them I'd try that over the shitshow that's about to hit your house once the other baby is born. There is going to be A LOT of work and stress by then and you'll be targeted just for existing.
Contact your grandparents, you’re being neglected and it’s not going to change. You deserve better. NTA by any stretch of the imagination
Jesus. Your parents sound awful. I'm so sorry. And, NTA for not wanting to take responsibility for their choices.
NTA. 18 will arrive quickly.  Make plans that don't rely on your extremely neglectful parents.
NTA. Spend as much time at your friends houses as you can, apply for every scholarship and grant for college that you're able to, and get a job to start saving money to get out of there as soon as you legally are able to. These people (I won't even call them parents) are horrible and I'm so sorry  you had to grow up in that environment. No matter how they make you feel, know that you are important and are loved, and that you matter 
NTA They can't completely ignore you and then also expect you to babysit their golden child when they want a break.
NTA. I’m sorry your “parents” are such shit human beings, I hope once you turn 18 you are successful and find what you’re missing in life.
NTA.  
  
To be honest, i've never seen a more clear-cut case of "you need to get emancipated from your parents" as this. It is very clear that they don't care about you, and you should get CPS involved with that ASAP.  
  
Imagine actually telling people that your first kid doesn't count because "it was the test run". The actual fuck. Why is it always the people that shouldn't be allowed to be parents that have kids.
NTA. Tell them they never did anything for you and even if they had you don't owe them because you didn't ask them to spread their legs. Make sure you aren't home when they need to go to these appointments. Or make it transactional. That they have to pay you a certain amount the day of before they leave or you won't do it.
NTA Your parents are incredibly insensitive.
NTA, what little they did for you was their responsibility. You owe them nothing. Talk to someone at school about your life, so if they try to parentify you more, you have someone to turn to.
NTA. Your parents sound horrible. And they’ve treated you so badly so why do them any favors.
NTA. You only spoke facts.
NTA. You don’t need to pay your parents back anything. They chose to have you and chose to raise you. That’s on them. They insisted on having a baby now and you need to ask them what they would do if you weren’t in the home to provide their babysitting for them. 
NTA. 

I hope you complain loudly to their friends and extended family. Make sure everyone knows what terrible people they are.
>Dad told me I need to look at it as paying back all they did for me.

Lol whut?!?? Oh, wow, that is *rich!*

NTA, obviously!
NTA. It’s completely valid to feel hurt and frustrated when your parents expect you to take on responsibilities they should have as parents, given how they’ve treated you in the past.
NTA. You only spoke the truth. Also, you don’t need to “pay them back” for doing their legally mandated duties as your parents.
NTA. Your parents are neglectful, selfish, narcissistic people and you deserved and deserve better. Leave the house before every appointment and turn off your phone, just like they do. They cannot force you to tend for their baby. If they leave her with you without your consent, call police and let them know she was abandoned. You really need to start working, so you can save and get out of there as soon as you're of age. Make sure you're working during their fertility appointments. 


And also, consider finding and reaching out to your paternal and maternal families and let them know you've been a neglected child your entire life and would like to know them, if they would like to know you. They may not care, but then again, your parents may have lied to you all this time about them. 


Eventually, you will find or create a family of your own, and I hope you are able to leave these terrible people behind you. 
I suspect your parents are now viewing you as a "built in babysitter" OP - my condolences
What is the legal age to leave these sad people where you are? If you need an online auntie, let me know. I have no idea how to parent but I'm 100% sure I could do better than them. NTA,definitely not.
Wow, your parents are awful human beings. I’d suggest calling CPS, but by the sounds of that system you’d be better off sticking it out at home. I suggest you put your nose to the books and try to excel at school so you can at least get a partial scholarship. Then go to uni or trade school and go NC as soon as possible.
Poor baby. 🥺 There's a beautiful life waiting for you in adulthood away from those evil people. 
Completely reasonable. I wouldn’t make it easy for them to try for another kid. Sounds like they aren’t even caring for one of the ones they already have. They should feel the full weight of their parental responsibilities and hire a sitter. This is sad to read, and I’m sorry you’re dealing with this.

I do hope that your (completely justified) resentment toward your parents doesn’t impact your relationship with your sister though. You shouldn’t be expected to babysit, but I hope you’re able to keep your relationship with her separate from your relationship with them because it could be something beautiful for you both. Sounds like your parents are lacking,  but your sibling(s) can provide an equally meaningful loving familial relationship.

My family had their own share of problems, and my brother (who was much older than me), always looked out for me and protected me. He was always my hero and best friend. I hope you can experience that with your younger sibling.
NTA. Could you reach out to your extended family to see if they have any interest in a relationship with you?
NTA. All they did for you was the legal minimum. .maybe not even that as it seems you are neglected.
NTA. Spend as much time as you can away from your parents’ home - when not at school then at friends. Don’t let them force you into babysitting by simply up and leaving while you’re home and baby is asleep. 

Also, you owe them NOTHING! You didn’t ask to be born, you didn’t do anything wrong. As parents, *they* are responsible for *you* until you’re a legal adult. Again: you owe them NOTHING. They barely did the absolute bare minimum, sounds like they kept you alive and that was that. No care, no love, no parenting. Sorry you went through that and still going through it OP.
NTA. Not in the slightest.

if we start from the beginning, ignoring where your parents have/are having another/more kids, you felt angry and betrayed and upset, because you were being neglected. You have a right to feel that way in the first place.

As for your parents having another/more kids, that's a selfish move on them. for neglecting and doing the bare minimum for 15 years, is not okay. then, to have another baby, and take the baby, who doesn't know right from left and doesn't have memories, on a 'family day' is downright disrespectful.

Them then asking you to take care of their kid after neglecting you for so long is not okay, and neither is their reasoning. Maybe if they cared and did more than the bare minimum as parents, it would make more sense for you to watch your younger sibling, but it doesn't make sense.

For you to lash out what you were feeling was reasonable, and they should understand what they put you through. then doing the bare minimum was not something they should be holding you liable for, in any circumstance.
This is tough because you're still a minor.  Honestly, I'd bide my time, fall in line until 18, and then GTFO and enjoy your adult life. It sucks, and it will continue to suck, but you're not far from the light at the end of the tunnel.  These next few years would be a really good opportunity for you to think of an exit plan, as well as how you'll support yourself.

Hang in there.  NTA.
Look up the term “parentification” and make sure they don’t push you in that direction.
I would not trust these people not to steal from you. If you have a bank account, make sure it is in your name only and they can't access it. If your parents' names are on your account, get a new account and transfer most of your money into the new account. Since you are under 18, you may need an adult to help you open a new account. Ask a trusted adult friend who knows your situation to help you, if you are unable to do it on your own. Ask a school counceler for information on financial planning, and start saving money that your parents cannot access. Do not hide cash at home. Good luck. Someday you will find the friends who will be the family you deserve.

NTA
My dad used to call me the "Ugly practice child" and I' the eldest of 4 children

Also used to say to me I was adopted and if he could send me back he would

Life sucks but just realise; nobody is going to help you but you....
If they can afford fertility treatments, they can afford a babysitter
NTA.  This is neglect which is abuse.  You have no obligation to babysit.  The only way I would consider it if I got paid a good amount - standard amount for babysitting that others would get.  I bet they won't, however.

Work on you - education,  life skills, learn to drive (ask your friends to help as I doubt your parents will), financial skills, get a job to earn money and experience and do whatever you can to leave when you turn 18.  Get any documents you can you might need and see if you can store them at a friends house.  Leverage your friends as best as possible here.  Be a good friend, a good guest when you visit them, learn to clean up and do house and lawn chores and help them out.  Anything that keeps you out of the house.

Your sister is the Golden Child.  She will be spoiled and usually that results in that child not being able to do well in life in the long term because they are spoiled and stunted.  One day, they very well may reach out to you to come and help them because Golden Child has failed. Be ready to say no.  Going No Contact once you leave would be good.  Perhaps even trying to reach out to your grandparents one day and hearing their side of things.  I bet there's more to this than them just deciding to have you as a child, especially if they are abusive toward you.

In the meantime, hunker down, learn something called "gray rocking" which is not really responding to their ways.  Do help out around the house etc. so you can get food, clothes, money toward education, helping you learn to drive, etc.  And DO NOT tell them your plans to leave or actually much of anything about your plans.  Do not get into large arguments with them.

Good luck
> Dad told me I need to look at it as paying back all they did for me.

This is exactly what you are doing, they did zilch for you so you will do zilch for them.
If you were anywhere close to me, you’d be my daughter and my husband’s daughter.  I’d run headfirst into ER walls to get you in.  Wtf is wrong with some people?
>Like how they were SO excited to have a baby and how they couldn't wait to be parents. A friend of my mom's did remind her of me but then she and dad said I was basically the too early practice run and this was the real deal.

Holy shit, if one of my friends said this to me I don't think I'd be able to hold back my look of absolute incredulity. That is one of those statements that immediately makes you question if your friend is a psychopath and if its worth keeping them in your life.
INFO: Is there any way that you could possibly get in touch with your grandparents or an aunt or uncle that may be able to help? I understand that they refused to show you any care back then, but it could be worth a shot to reach out since a lot can change in 15 years. 

I say this as someone who has watched this happen with a friend whose family is now very involved since the door was opened many years down the line (15-20 years later). 

I hope you’re able to make an exit plan for when you are old enough. Would a friend of yours parents allow you to stay with them for a bit as you navigate this tough period with your parents? 

I need to add that you are also not the asshole at all for your response to your parents. I’m sorry that they have treated you so poorly. That’s not fair to you at all.
FAKE
^^^^AUTOMOD  ***Thanks for posting! This comment is a copy of your post so readers can see the original text if your post is edited or removed. This comment is NOT accusing you of copying anything. Read [this](https://www.reddit.com/r/AmItheAsshole/wiki/faq#wiki_post_deletion) before [contacting the mod team](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FAmItheAsshole)***

My parents had me (15f) when they were 18 and 19. They always made it so obvious they resented being parents so young and added to that they never tried to be good parents. I typically spend most of my time at friends houses. I don't have extended family to rely on, they disowned my parents for having me so young, so friends houses were a positive in my life that made me feel more comfortable than being at home with my parents.

My parents never did the typical parent stuff like helping with homework or showing up to support me at school. I don't think they ever attended a parents conference for me. They ignored a lot of stuff I needed to get signed and I'd have to get right in their face on the last day to get signatures. My birthday and Christmas have never been a big deal or celebration. They do celebrate their wedding anniversary but that's a them thing.

When they told me two years ago they were expecting a baby it really surprised me but then it hurt because sometimes they said stuff that made me feel like I didn't exist. Like how they were SO excited to have a baby and how they couldn't wait to be parents. A friend of my mom's did remind her of me but then she and dad said I was basically the too early practice run and this was the real deal. When my sister was born they were so attentive to her that I ceased to exist completely. I got sick and my school was trying to call someone to pick me up early but they ignored the calls and when I got home they had taken the baby out for a family day. When they got home they hadn't even realized the school called because they turned off their phones to "enjoy family time".

My mom quit her job a month after my sister was born. She wants to be a SAHM and she and dad want at least one more kid. My dad leaves work early on Fridays so he can spend more time with the family (mom and sister). My parents tried to have another kid for over a year and mom isn't pregnant yet so they're jumping to fertility treatments. They told me I need to watch my sister for a few hours every week while they attend those appointments and they gave me this detailed list of stuff she needs and what I'm going to do with her. I told them I won't and that they had her so they need to take care of her because she's not my kid. My parents told me it's a few hours a week and not a huge deal. Dad told me I need to look at it as paying back all they did for me. I said no and told them they don't give a crap about me so why would I want to help them.

AITA?

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/AmItheAsshole) if you have any questions or concerns.*
They really don't want you to watch the child while "paying back all they did for you" since that's pure neglect.
NTA, do you have a way to reach out to grandparents perhaps?
NTA. You didn’t ask to be born and they treated you like shit you don’t owe them anything. They’re not entitled to your help. Fuck them I hope you’re working on a plan to leave your home and then when you’re 18. I hope you shame them to every single family member that you know all their friends.
They did nothing for you, you should pay them back exactly that 🤷‍♀️

NTA
I had my first as a teenager and him and I are so close. He doesn’t feel like his little siblings get me more than he does beyond the whole babies need more attention. I have always made sure he has my love and attention. We just recently snuggled and watched a scary movie just us.

NTA and I’m sorry your parents suck so bad. They’re missing out on such an amazing bond, like the one I have with my oldest.
I am so sorry you have such crappy parents, and they are just throwing it in your face again and again. I hope you have some good friends to rely on.
Not the AH that is their responsibility not yours
NTA

Don't help. You were at best a nuisance to them and they expect you to have good feelings about it? Other than not openly murdering you, what did they do for you? I'm sorry no adult noticed soon enough to get CPS involved.

Help the people that deserve it. Your friends and especially yourself.
NTA wtf. „This is the real deal“ how fucked up. Huge AHs.
Your parents have been neglectful and abusive your whole life. Not only is how you feel valid, but a very measured response for how much they've fucked you over.

If gets better, I promise. You'll be able to get away from all these people one day and not have to give two shits about them.
NTA 

I am so sorry. You will find and build people who love you. You don’t deserve any of this, and there *will* be love in the future. I promise. I am 26 and I never could’ve imagined the love I have now when I was a 15 year old abused child. I send you so much love and peace. I am deeply sorry you’re being failed.
I would be actively looking for a job because they're going to kick you as soon as they can. No favors for them in any way, but especially not to have more kids. No one on earth needs these assholes to have more kids. 
Ugh my heart just hurts reading this. Sorry you have such lousy parents.
Nta…you don’t owe them anything. You didn’t ask to be born.
Hey lovely, I went thru smth kind of similar and I’m in foster care now but I js wanted to say to not think of them as parents, parents care about you, they are simply the people that made you, they don’t care about you. You can get through this though and I’m glad you can stay at your friends house and I’m always here for u (14f) xx
NTA
I am so sorry you have parents like that. That’s just awful. You are not TA at all. What they’ve done is just neglect you your whole life.
I am so sorry.  If I were you I'd start making I ng plans to leave at 18
I wonder how long until the new wears off with the sister. Maybe when/if they have a son bc that’ll be different and new! 

These people are losers and it’s sad they want to bring a third person into their mess, like 2 isn’t enough. 

Good luck making your own way in the world, may it get easier and better from here on out.
I’m so sorry. I was a young mom… and then I had another baby 10 years later. The guilt I feel every day for being the mom I am to my daughter, as opposed to the young naive mom my boys got, kills me. I don’t know how old you are and I’m still only 29, but I’ll be your mama if you need. I’m so sorry they’ve failed you. You deserve all the love in the world babes.
NTA. that's a depressing situation to be in. Both your parents are sick and obviously needs therapy.

*"they disowned my parents for having me so young"*

You should still try to reach out with literally anyone from anyone's side that you feel would help you. Who knows maybe you have a dying rich grandparent who can't wait to put you, the grandkid, on their last will as a petty revenge to their idiot child.
NTA, but as she grows, make sure she doesn't feel hated by you. Do not take responsibility to raise her. Just do spend quality time with her still. I know there is resentment, but you guys need to have each other's back. If the parents have one more child, they might neglect this kid, too, based on track record. Play with her, teach her things, scold her if necessary, praise if she deserves it, and do NOT take responsibility for looking after her. I would love to say a few words ab your parents, but you will discover that on your own when you become a parent. In the they were wrong way.
NTA 
None of what you experienced is ok. I’m fuming for you. With you. You’re wiser than your years and have a strong voice. It’s even more important now that you take care of yourself, as you’ve been doing and not let them use you as their servant. Good on you for saying no. Stay strong. One day, you will make the family you want to have. It will be the best revenge. Try not to dwell on the crap you’ve been handed. Keep looking forward, keep your eye on the prize. Living well, chosen family and lots of love. The key here is don’t dwell. Don’t rehash. Don’t fret. Let shit roll off your back. Not easy but you can do it. You have a whole future to create what ever you want. Stay strong!!!
Idk why people are asking you to leave your home but you should make them support you until you’re done with high school and more if you can. And definitely do not babysit for them. They really sound like assh….. I had my kids pretty young and they do help me babysit their now 2 y.o brother but I always compensate them with money etc..
My close friend was having a horrible time with his family in high school and he moved in with my parents and me for his senior year. My hope for you is that you can have a friend who has a family that can and will step up for you like that. If you can get a situation like that you then need to look into becoming an emancipated minor to where your "parents" can basically kiss your ass. Get yourself a part time job to either save all that money and/or contribute to the household finances of your host family. No matter what, they've got the baby they finally wanted, it's their responsibility, not yours. Screw them.
>they don’t give a crap about me, so why would I want to help them?

**THIS** NTA at all, and I’m so sorry you have such crappy parents! You’re their child, regardless of the fact that they were 18/19 when you were born. The fact that they wouldn’t even pick you up from school when you were sick is beyond disgusting! Then they have the **AUDACITY** to expect you to help them with your sister?! You owe your shitty parents absolutely nothing and you deserve so much better! Again, I’m really sorry your parents have treated you so terribly!
Whatever you do, don't let some manboy sell you his love as a replacement for theirs and let him knock you up
You are NTA!, you poor thing, have you spoken to your mum and dad about how they are and have made you feel? X
NTA. I have 4 kids, and I absolutely learn as I go. I make mistakes, and I learn from them. My oldest probably ends up with most of those mistakes because prior to him, I had never been a mom. But I also privately think it gives our bond something special that we kind of figured it out together. I admit my mistakes when I make them, and do my absolute best to make up for them. I've never done anything awful. But like... losing my temper and yelling, or learning new methods for helping my kids emotionally regulate as I go... I feel bad for him that the youngest gets the more experienced Mommy, but each of them have gotten different parts and versions of me as I've developed and grown as a person and a parent. 

My point is that while yes, in a way, my oldest is kind of my guinea pig, I have ALWAYS loved him wholeheartedly and put in every ounce of effort I've put in with our other 3. If I'm even 5 minutes late to pick up ANY of my kids, I'm in absolute panic mode, calling the school or whoever has them to make sure the kids know I'm stuck in traffic and didn't forget them. If I MIGHT be late, even a small chance, I let them know beforehand and give them a window of time. If they're sick, I'm there. If they're injured, I'm there. Children don't ask to exist, and they have no say over whether they do exist. They get no control over who raises them. My very strong belief is that the moment a parent chooses to raise a child, whether conceived or adopted, that parent makes an unspoken promise to be selfless and put them first. Sometimes, that means being selfish, because you can't pour from an empty glass. But you at least ensure their basic needs are met before you get your mental/emotional break in order to refresh yourself as a person and a parent.

You have no obligation to your parents or their new children. Focus on you because, unfortunately, you're the only one who will. Focus on your future, and earn yourself a solid life far away from these people who don't deserve you. There is nothing wrong with YOU. As a mom, there is nothing wrong with YOU that made them act this way. Some people have issues all on their own, and no one else can change them. Nothing you did or said could or would have ever changed that. While their new child is innocent, they are also no more special or worthy than you are. Please remember that.
NTA.

It is a sad story. You had every right to tell them what you did. Stay strong. My best wishes.
NTA You are a thousand percent right here, stand your ground!
Nta
NTA
NTA you owe your parents nothing! They did the bare minimum as parents because they were obligated to. They did nothing to earn your love and respect. Bringing someone into the world does not mean you automatically deserve everything from them. They made it clear that your sister will always be more important than you to them and that they actually don’t care about you. They just see you as a convenient free babysitter. Put your foot down and refuse. They chose to have another child and they are responsible for it not you. Tell them you will call the cops if they Leave her alone. And try to move out of there as soon as you can and never look back at them.

They will definitely try to continue to use you as a free babysitter for as long as you live there and try to guilt you with the \*family\* bs excuse. Don’t ever let them make you feel bad or guilty. They are awful and deserve nothing from you. Tell them that they were awful parents and did nothing. And that you should go no contact after moving out. They didn’t want you so therefore you wont be there for their convenience after you move out.
NTA, get a job and start saving to get the hell out of there when you turn 18.
NTA

It's abusive the way some parents act.
oh dear I'm sorry your going through this they don't deserve you as soon as you can go to college or get a job but you deserve more they have said some really hurtful things
I need to change my "it's abusive the way some parents act" to "your "parents" suck and are pretty much horrible ass people".

Hang in there OP.
NTA

I’m sorry you have to go through this, this is awful. Being the invisible kid sucks!!!
You don’t owe your parents anything for anything they did for you, especially not babysitting your sibling.
NTA I'm so sorry they r doing this to you. I don't get it I had my first at 17 and 2 more after that spaced 4 years apart and I couldn't imagine not loving and protecting and taking care of any of them but especially my oldest bc we essentially grew up together and taught each other how to be a parent and child. Your parents suck and I hope you get away from them when u can and never look back. You creating a fantastic life for yourself and leaving them in the past is the best answer
[removed]
So sorry you had to go through this
Absolutely NTA. You're good OP.
      NTA they had your sister not you! Tell them if they want you to watch her they need to be willing to pay you at the minimum or that you don't know how to care for a child well as you were never cared for.

       Personally I would start looking for part-time jobs and saving for emancipation or trade school. Hide your money or don't let them know you're working as I fear they may try to make you pay rent. Talk to your friends parents about helping you look for odd jobs if you can't get a full time job due to your age. Walmart will hire teens part time at 16 where I live and small stores or fast food will as well.

     As for finding your extended family if you do want to look for them if you know where your parents were born birth and death records are public knowledge. You also may be able to find newspaper clippings from around that time announcing your parents birth with the name of your grandparents. You could also tell your parents you need to trace your lineage for a school project and get them to give you their names.

      As a mom I feel for you and if you ever just need to talk please feel free to reach out. I would be more than happy to step in as a surrogate Mom to support you in whatever you need. Just remember you are stronger than they realize! You hold on sweetie! Much Love
NTA in any way.  
You sound remarkably put together for someone who had to raise herself. Make sure that you are nowhere to be found when they expect you to be babysitting. Turn off your phone, you can tell them you were having a little "quiet time".  
You are absolutely justified in refusing to watch your sister. Tell them that you already raised one child for them, you're not interested in raising another, not even for a few hours a week.
Your parents suck big time. Your existence is the result of a series of choices *they* made. They had sex, brought the pregnancy to term, delivered you, and signed your birth certificate. They had lots of options between the positive pregnancy test and bringing you home from the hospital that they chose not to utilize and when they decided to have you and raise you, they made themselves responsible for a defenseless human that was utterly dependent on them for survival. I despise parents who act as though their children owe them for having and caring for them. No one forced them to have a baby, and the minute they signed that birth certificate was the minute *they* owed *you*. Feeding, clothing, sheltering, and educating you is the legal bare minimum. That’s before we even touch on the disgusting disparity between how they treat you versus your sister. They chose to have her just like they chose to have you, and you have no obligation to be their childcare, but especially with how they are neglecting you. I hope you can get out of there as soon as possible after you hit the age of majority so you’re no longer trapped with their toxic behavior. NTA OP. I’m so sorry and simultaneously angry on your behalf.
NTA.
It drives me so mad when parents say "you owe me for raising you" for what? Doing the bare minimum of what IS a parent's responsibility.
And sounds like they didn't do that right either, since they are absolutely neglecting you.
They are horrible parents and should feel ashamed of how they are and have treated you.

If I were you, I would find a job. Get a bank account set up just in your name and aim to move out after high school.
If you cannot open a bank account in your name, ask help from a trusted adult to open one for you to use meanwhile.

Because your parents definitely are going to try to use you as a babysitter or for money once you make some, and probably don't have any college savings for you.
So make an escape plan.
NTA... I'm so sorry your family is like this, you deserve much better... Everyone deserves love an support from their family, I hope you can find that elsewhere some day
NTA. I’m so sorry that’s the childhood they gave you. That’s so messed up to do to someone who had no say in the matter of existing. I hope you create a beautiful life for yourself and it’s filled with people who love you and don’t treat you like a burden.
NTA! Sorry you’re going through that!
NTA. “I know you never wanted me, but you don’t have to be a dick about it.”
NTA.... I understand, and have been in your shoes.  I am sorry you have to got through this, just please know you are not alone and it's good to set boundaries even if it's your parents.
Could you talk to someone who can help you find your extended family? Maybe the family of your friends? They can even talk to a PI to find them. Everything is on the Internet, I don’t think it is that hard to find them.
NTA

I am so sorry for you. :(

I hope fate pays you back one day. I wish you a great future with great friends and a new chosen family. You deserve the world.
NTA. Your parents are terrible. Cut them off and start a loving family in the future.
I am so sorry this is happening to you. You do not deserve this neglect. Try to get out of that house as soon as possible. It might still be a while, but see if you can move in with friends if they go ti the same college as you after high school. You might also want to go ti the library or police station or smt and educate yourself on what you can do legally. Get proof of your parents neglect and sue them for college money? Is that a thing in your country?
Good luck!
Do you have anyone else who does care about you who will allow you to live with them? If you do I would be packing my things and going and living with that person. Having said this good for you for standing up for yourself. If they dare try and leave the baby with you, I would threaten to call the cops on them for abandoning their child.
Is there anyway you can contact extended family and tell them what is happening. They may actually care, also please speak to a guidance counselor or trusted adult , you deserve so much better.
No, not the TA. You go girl.
NTA, but they'll probably kick you out soon
NTA. Not remotely TA.
I am so sorry that you have been treated so poorly by the 2 people who are most responsible for caring for you.  Caring for a kid as a parent should do is not a favor that needs to be repaid.  It’s the way life is when you have a kid.  You are a completely innocent person in this, and they have never risen to the occasion of stepping into the role that they elected when they chose to have a child.  Shame on them.

I hope you will find many good people in this life who have it in them to love.
Do you have a friend you can live with? If you do, I think you could do the while emancipation process, depending on what you can prove. 

You need out of that oppressive environment.
NTA - They had a “family day” and didn’t include you. They do not see you as family so you owe them nothing. Your sister is not your responsibility. They can take her with if they need to. You are not a babysitter. 

Your parents are horrible narcissistic people. But please don’t take this out on your sister. She could be your only life line of family. But don’t let your shit parents abuse that. Be good to her not to them. (Still not saying you should babysit for them)
I’m so sorry your parents are treating you like this.  If you don’t want to help out that is your preference I totally understand where you are coming from but don’t have a grudge on your sibling. It’s not her fault your parents are imbeciles.
NTA. I’m sorry you got stuck with parents that don’t love you.
Do you have a best friend that you can move in with? Explain to their parents. No sense staying.
Have you looked into emancipation? Also do you know your social security number/have your card? Depending on the agency you can freeze your credit at individual agencies, some at age 14, which I recommend. It is amazing that you were thinking about finding and keeping your birth certificate but any other information you can get about vaccinations or copies of any of your parents information will help if you decide to emancipate or cut contact with them when you turn 18. If there is a parent of one of your friends that you really trust and respect ask if you could keep a locked box at their house (but don’t tell the friend just the parent in case you have a falling out with the friend) and in it put your birth certificate, cash that you start earning, necessary documents and any mementos you might want to keep.
NTA your parents a fuckwits
I’m so so sorry. I can maybe give you a glimpse into the future to make you feel better. My dad’s situation was really similar to yours, they didn’t want him (grandma was only 17) and she resented my dad forever of trying to rob her young years. They left him to watch his younger brother for days on his own when he was 7 and his brother 3. My dad swore to himself that if he ever had children they would never feel like a burden to him. I was planned, he had me at 32 years old, and even though they struggled hard financially, and he had to work a lot, he gave his all to us and still is. He was treated how no child deserves to be treated, I know how he was treated and saw how he in turn treats us. He will never have loving and caring parents, so he became one. What I’m trying to say, you will find your way, you will gather strength and I am proud of you for setting your boundaries. Go design your own life and build your own family from friends and maybe a partner or children. Good luck ❤️
NTA You are completely in the right and your parents are terrible. I hope you get out of there soon so you can start creating your own family (e.g., friends, mentors, supports, etc.)
I can swear I’ve read this story before. But assuming you are telling the truth you really need to go no contact with your family as soon as you can. They are terrible.
Updateme
Look into getting emancipated.
>Dad told me I need to look at it as paying back all they did for me. I said no and told them they don't give a crap about me so why would I want to help them. 


That's rich. What have they done exactly that's for you? 


NTA. I'm so sorry you have been neglected. This is a reflection of them, not you.
Been there done that. Start planning now to move out as soon as you graduate. Get out because they’ll expect you to be a live in nanny. It will be hard, but it will be hard no matter what age you move out. 

I assume they have no plans to help you with college. Consider this, I ended up joining the Army to get away. These days with tuition assistance while on active duty you can knock out most of the base classes needed for a degree and then use the GI bill. 

Good luck
I had my first child a month after my first birthday. He wasn't planned, and I didn't even know I was pregnant with him until around 20 weeks. 


My childhood was abusive. I was ignored if I needed something and beaten if one of my younger siblings did something. Mum didn't know how to parent, so I did. My step-dad just did his own thing, annoyed my mother, ignored my siblings, and screamed at me and hit me. 


So when I had my baby, I already knew how to look after him. I'd gone through all that for three other babies, and he was given so much love. 


Well done to you for sticking up for yourself. Start saving if you can, to give yourself options.
NTA. Good for you, do not cave to them. They are not your parents. Merely the people who brought you into the world and didn’t do jack to take care of you after that. I’m so sorry.
NTA. Your parents did what they were legally obligated to do, and no more. You owe them nothing, there's nothing to pay back. Plan to get away to live your life
You do not owe your parents a thing. 
They chose to have a child, that includes everything that comes with it. 

You poor poor thing. 😭 This breaks my heart. You don't deserve this at all. 
Stick to your guns.
OMG. This breaks my heart. Just survive until 18 and run.
NTA. Your parents shouldn't have had a second kid with how they treat you, and now they want a third? Unreal. Move out the second you can.
NTA. Besides everything that's already been posted, I really think you should look into emancipation. You already say you practically live at your friends houses; would their families be willing to take you in for the next three years, or maybe a few that would be willing to have you around a few nights a week until you graduate?

Because what you're experiencing is abuse. It's not just neglect, it is abuse. Children are entitled to their parents love and support; emotional neglect is abuse, and Child Protective Services, as well as a judge, take it seriously. Add the parentification of them expecting you to babysit their "real deal" child while they go to try and make a *third* one, and their entitled attitude towards you "owing them", and that only strengthens your case. After all, if you can prove definitively that you've had to care for yourself (including seeking the support of your friends) all these years, the onus will then be on your *parents* to prove why the court should rule you still belong in their care. Ask around; you may be able to get out of this. But, definitely try to get evidence of them admitting their neglect; try to covertly record them (even if it's a "2 party consent" state; it can only be rejected as evidence).

Good luck, and I'm so sorry.
Nta

I just want to point out that this whole situation is the kind that leads to CPS investigations. A similar issue happened to a neighbor and her 16yo took the baby to the doctor because he didn't know what to do when the baby cried so hard it seemed to stop breathing. Doctors have to report this regardless of the 16yo taking care of the child because it was seen as child endangerment (leaving a child with a caretaker that had no experience). Neither child was taken from her, but now she has that in a file somewhere ready to be used against her if anything similar happens in the future. 

It's fine to ask you to babysit, but once you say no, they need to find alternative care options. I babysat for my parents as young as 12 and I will say, someone should have reported me for sure. I remember doing things that made sense to me at the time, but looking back, I am so happy I didn't cause permanent damage to my brothers.

You and I both know your parents will never forgive you for any harm that comes to that baby in your care, even if it's something beyond your control. Take care of yourself as you already do and leave taking care of the baby to its parents. If they have money for IVF they have it to hire a sitter.
NTA, unfortunately, your parents are assholes. I was a teen mom. Had my child at 15 years old. My parents helped raise her so I could finish school and get a degree. But she was mine. My kid, my responsibility to give her a good life. What your parents have done to you is wrong. They don't deserve to have you as a free baby sitter. They really don't have any business having more kids after they failed so miserably with you. I'm so sorry you've lived this way. My advice to you, focus on school, go to college, get away from them, and make something of yourself and have a great life. I wish you all the best.
NTA you unfortunately have the raw deal of being born to immature parents. It might be good to learn as much as you can through reading or therapy about it because it doesn’t seem like they will ever mature and that isn’t your fault. It’s so hard being more grown up than the grownups- I know all too well. It gets better when you accept it and start prioritizing yourself.
NTA. 

As a teen mom myself, many years ago, who made my fair share of mistakes because of my emotional immaturity, I couldn't imagine calling MY "accident" a practice run. 

I'm sorry your parents suck. Under normal circumstances, having raised 3 boys, I would say asking some responsibility of you is expected at your age for a few hours for family needs... but babysitting their "real deal" child so they can have another one to further increase the emotional neglect of you is a bit much. 

Hope you get the needed emotional attention and care from other trusted adults.
NTA. would it be possible to do a DNA test and find your extended family? Maybe now that years have passed and this is your reality, maybe someone would want to reconnect with just you?
How sad that your little sister and the baby they are trying for will have those people as parents. NTA at all.
NTA. 
You matter. I’m sorry you’re going through this.
There's no way, in any timeline or universe where you'd be the asshole. None.
NTA and enjoy going no contact with them as soon as you turn eighteen.
Nope
I’m so sorry, your situation is so incredibly sad. Your parents have been absolutely terrible towards you and you deserve better. You’re NTA. Continue to stand your ground and you don’t owe them anything.

I hope you can one day build a family (be it through friends or a partner and children if you want them) who cares about you and shows you the love you deserve.
people who have kids OWE IT TO THEIR KIDS to do things like feed them, shelter them, care for their emotional and physical needs, because that is the literal point of procreation. babies CANNOT do those things. and since it is their (bare minimum) responsibility, they do not get to ask for that time, money, and care to be paid back. it is the price one pays to have children. the children do not even owe them gratitude for doing it, though it is nice to be able to be thankful for your parents not leaving you to die. so they are wrong in every way.
NTA.. 

Reading this broke my heart. 

One day I hope you escape this and find an unconditional love that you truly deserve.
I wish I could give you a big hug and adopt you into our family! You are worth time and attention, and I'm so sorry your parents never gave you that. You have no obligation to watch your sister, but you may choose to be a brother to her and invest time into building a relationship with her as she grows up.  She most likely will reciprocate that love, and she had nothing to do with the immature and callous way your parents treat you. She may very well be treated as you were growing up, as she may be replaced with a "new model" soon. 

  
NTA
Nta
NTA 

Redditors gave some good advice  regarding school and working, good luck
NTA

They're terrible parents to you and I'm sorry you're going through this.

The best revenge will be to make yourself successful; work hard in school, get a decent education and job out of college/university. Have a relationship with your sister that you want and ignore their (your parents) snide petty behaviour. They've made it clear they don't want you in their life for a variety of reasons but don't let that dim your shine. It's not uncommon to come across people who don't want us in their lives as adults, though it unquestionably hurts when it's our own parents. Make smart choices, be responsible and ask other responsible parental figures in your life for guidance.

This way, in 10-15 years when you have a successful life of your own (and maybe even a family), you can tell your sister all about how terrible your parents really were. Your christmas' can be between you two and your parents will learn they were the mistake all along.
NTA and I'm sorry your parents are like that.
NTA

I'm so sorry, you don't deserve such s**tyy parents. And they don't deserve you to act like their free babysitter.
NTA. Unfortunately, they strike me as the type that would kick her out on the day she turns 18.
[removed]
Please please please, for your future... Learn and study hard, get a scholarship and try to create the pillars of a great future life for yourself. These are not the people that you can rely on, in bad or in good times... Start working small jobs and save money... Think about your future!
If you know your parents’ hometown you may be able to Google your paternal side, at least, even if you don’t know your mother’s maiden name.

Lock down your credit as soon as possible
NTA. I'm sorry you got born to such shitty parents.

You're right to stand your ground and not let them parentify you. 

My advice to you: Get a job AS SOON AS POSSIBLE and save every goddamned cent. Move out when you're 18 and ghost them entirely. Fuck them.
Ah, the parentification of children. NTA your family are evil.
If they do leave the baby with you call the police for child abandonment. Not kidding.

NTA
NTA.  You haven't done anything wrong.  Your parents have done everything wrong. Please work with a trusted counselor or a friend's parents to plan your escape at 18.  

You can join the military at 17 with your parents permission and it doesn't sound like they would fight it since you are already (rightfully) refusing to provide free babysitting or otherwise help them raise your sibling.  The military will provide housing, food, job skills and a college education.  

The GI Bill is used to pursue education when you leave the service.  While on duty, the government pays for you to take classes in person, online or by correspondence. I had a blast during my time in the US Air Force.

Good luck.
You need to speak to the guidance counselor at school about this and get some help with family therapy.
I feel for you. Please take care of yourself and focus on your future without the selfish deadbeat parents you unfortunately have. Be careful they don’t turn you into the unpaid help. Do you have any relatives you can stay with?
Definitely NTA. I’m sorry for how your parents have treated you and continue to.
My wife told me she went through this. She was 14 when her brother was born.

Her mom would constantly make her cancel plans because she had church group stuff and had to visit friends. Nothing trashy, but the mom didn't want a baby at 41. He was an oopsy 

He's in his 30s now, great dude. Love the guy.
NTA, your parents suck and they can get fucked
NTA. 
Children never owe it to their parents to “pay back” the parents for doing the bare minimum of what’s expected of them. And it sounds like your parents hardly even did the bare minimum. 
If they really insist you could always tell them you’ll put in the same effort they put in for you. 

Even if your grandparents disowned your parents, do you have no contact with them at all? Surely they don’t also blame your for your parents choices.
It's their legal obligation to provide for you because they CHOSE to have you. If at any point they try to get you to babysit, then call the police for abandonment. NTA
You sweet poor child. No, you are not the AH at all and if I could reach out and grab your parents, I would let them have it. I am sending you a mom hug full of love and acceptance and I hope you are able to move on as you get older and realize that is not the right way to raise kids.
NTA but why dont they get a babysitter or pay you? If they have Money for fertiliry treatment this is change to them, why be cheap now?
Maybe someone can answer this. Why don’t people like OP’s parents give their child up for adoption if they don’t want to be parents? Why make everyone miserable when they can help someone be happy? And give their child a much better life!
NTA ' sorry kid. Of you were one of my kid's fiends you could come be with us as much as you want. 

Sometimes parents do really dumb stuff and they don't realize it. Problem is you are powerless to do anything about it. Good news is, in just a few years you will be graduating high school. So study, keep your nose clean, and prepare for the next stage of life.  

Babysitting your sibling for a few hours once in a while ain't a bad thing to do to keep the peace. It ain't right but it ain't much. 

Sorry your parents suck. The world can be a really beautiful place so I hope you get a lot of love and kindness in your life. Good luck
NTA. Try and reach out to your extended family. They may help you. They cut your parents off for who they are, not because of who you are.
UPDATEME
NTA

Your parents were DNA donors, but it sounds like your friends' parents raised you more than they did.

You have every right to be angry and upset that this child is getting everything, and to grieve the fact that you didn't. You don't owe them a thing, even if they did manage to be good parents. But they weren't, and they think far too highly of themselves.

See, the thing is, bad parents never wonder if they're bad parents. Good parents wonder about it all the time.
Well done, young lady! 

You should be very proud of yourself for standing up for yourself with dignity in the face of disturbing neglect from your ‘parents’. I can see that you will do well in life despite your upbringing.  

I suspect your folks will want to use you as the babysitter for your siblings and am wondering if it was possible for you to live somewhere else while you finish your schooling? You said that the wider family is estranged but, perhaps, a grandparent maybe able to assist you.

I wish you well as I can see you will do well in life.
NTA - Any parent that tells a minor they owe them - will always be the AH!!
They are immature. It sounds like you were unplanned (note: that does NOT mean you are an unwelcome part of their lives). They see this new baby as a chance to do better, and be prepared; they are sharing excitement for a "redo" without considering their actions, or your feelings at all - because they are not subtly saying that you got the short end of the stick. 

NTA, hopefully you can get away from them ASAP to college. Parents should never outwardly act like they regret a child or dislike a child, just because they were unprepared for the responsibility... it sounds like your parents are doing that. Even if they couldn't attend parent-teacher meetings due to having two jobs, it should have been made clear to you that you were appreciated, and they didn't go because they *did care* rather than didn't care at all.

Stand your ground, but also seek out help from other adults. You may be kicked out by your parents if you don't help out with the infants. 


 I am sorry you have to deal with that, you are not an asshole, your parents are.
NTA - not your kid, not your responsibility 

Now if you wanna stay close to your sibling, that would be out of your own want. I feel bad you had parents like that and I feel bad for your new sibling.
Your parents are selfish and horrible -- whoops, I mean "parents." You are right, and they are so so wrong here.
Paying them back for all they've done for you?! What creeps, they sound like truly horrible people. You didn't ask to be here, meeting basic needs is their duty. 

Also, taking care of your sister is NOT your job. 

NTA
NTA, they called you a ‘practice run’ so shouldn’t expect a free babysitter especially when they pretend you don’t exist until it all of a sudden benefits them.

I’m sorry you’re going through this with them.
Start working next year, find a trusted place to put your money and gtfo of there asap. I'm sorry yourbparents suck. They were irresponsible and it fell on your shoulders. You don't have to love/care for any of them, even the baby. NTA
NTA. At this point, they seem to be more focused on the prospect of being pregnant than actually caring for a child. Your sister is literally not an only child. She has a sister. If they think she is an only child, then that is because they have detatched themselves as your parents in their OWN eyes because they didn’t care enough for you. 

…. So, what’s to stop them having the same thought process if it takes too many years to conceive again? If they leave her in your care for too long and deciding she isnt theirs really, either?

NTA. You’re not just protecting yourself. You’re not even just preventing the suffering of your sister. For a “do-over,” baby they are treating her just like you. What’s to stop them from doing the same with the next kid?

If anything, you are doing an outright good by preventing them from bringing a third child into this world to integrate into their cycle of neglect. 
NTA.

They couldn’t be bothered to be your parents, now they want to parentify you. In your shoes, the nicest thing I would say is “suck a beefy fart from my ass.” You are able to recognize that your “donors” aren’t treating you like a whole human being that they created, and them trying to pawn care of the second child on to you… how fucking sick and low.
What the actual f?!? They are horrible people
NTA. I'm sorry your parents are such awful humans. Do what you can to set yourself up to be self-sufficient when you turn 18 because you'll get no support from them past the expiry of their legal obligation.
Good for you. It's so impressive that you're recognizing this toxic relationship at your age. You'll need *a lot* of therapy about what's happened to you, but you're a person who makes good choices. You'll end up fine. NTA
NTA

I hope you're able to one day find a family that cares about you. Friends, partners, future spouse. You deserve all the love
Maybe try reaching out to your grandparents
Oh, kiddo, NTA. Your "parents" are shitty humans. In a normal family, it would be the cool thing to help out with your sister, but not in this case. 

Is there a possibility of moving in with a friend, like have their parents take you on in a gaurdianship role? I don't even know if that's legal, but you sure could use some real parenting and tlc.

Hugs and love from this random internet grandma.
As a mother this breaks my heart and I’m so sorry your parents don’t value you as they should. My son is now 31 and I cannot imagine ignoring him or his needs for anything; he’ll always be my baby.

The comments are filled with useful ideas on how to navigate things until you turn 18. I know you don’t know me, but if you ever just need to vent, rage, scream, whatnot, my DM is open to you. 💔
NTA. Please if in the U.S. either make sure you have insane grades to get a full scholarship, talk to a decent guidance counselor who can suggest trade schools/ trade salaries, or join the ROTC and go military. Look into the Air Force better of the branches. See about extra circulars, volunteering near school, or a part time job. I caution with the part time job because I don’t want to see your “parents” take your money. 
If you have any decent friends with a decent family member maybe ask them to you can stay extra at their houses. Like studying so you are home as little as possible. They cannot force you to watch their first child. If at 16 it is beyond unbearable speak to a councilor about emancipation. You need proof of what your parents are doing.
 I am so sorry. I truly am. Make sure you are on birth control. Not saying you are doing anything. But, if you are you don’t get pregnant. Planned parenthood and you don’t need parents approval. Hide them in your purse. I am sorry. NTA but your parents need to be sterilized.
"paying back all they did for me." i'm sorry what did they do for you? they gave you a house, food, school and a shity childhood. CONGRATULATIONS!! you did the bear fucking minimum seriously what the hell? absolutely NTA
>My parents told me it's a few hours a week and not a huge deal.

It was too big of a deal for them to do it for the last 15 years, so they have no business to expect it of you. It's not your job to parent kids that aren't yours, and it's DEFINITELY not your job to parent a kid for your own parents who couldn't be arsed to parent you!

NTA
Get ready to move out when you turn 18. When they want a babysitter, be somewhere else. i’m sorry your parents neglected you when all you did was be born to them. NTA.
I hope OP sees this
My mother didn’t know my eye color. I was 19.
Yes OP tell them this, hope things get better for you.
Brutal, I love it.
This is so good.
I feel the sentiment here but I think a lot of otherwise good parents would get their 15 year old’s favorites wrong.
Thissssssssss
It is but I'm used to it. They were showing all that without words for years. Though the practice run part is funny to me because what practice did they get? I can't say they ever really did much/any parenting so it's just like, what are they talking about. They didn't make the most of their practice run for people who see me that way.
Ah this my parents like to say “you were our first girl!” my older brother their first child was spoiled (not the golden child btw I love my big bro!!)  but I was their experimental child and they admit it! 
If it was a practice run they failed. They never engaged OP as parents, just enough to fulfil their legal responsibilities and never made a big deal about holidays or celebrations unless it was about their relationship.
I think if anyone said that to them they'd say she deserves to grow up as not an only child.
That's exactly how it was. I'm honestly surprised they didn't put me in foster care at some point. But then they'd have to pay. I'll never get them choosing to keep me for this. Putting me up for adoption would have been kinder.
Omg this. This is perfect. I do hope OP can keep up with her comments and sees this. 

My own comment to her was about them not even giving her the bare sodding minimum that they were required to by law.  So there's absolutely nothing to pay them back for. And besides (and I just thought of this lol), being brought up by your parents isn't a fucking loan that you have to pay back with interest or something. 

Gahh I'm so mad on OP's behalf. I'm going to go and play with my cat.
Thank you. I know it's not her (the child's) fault but I really don't want to be responsible for her or helping them when they don't look out for me at all.
They already know. The fact my parents never show to anything has told them a lot and they check in a few times a year with me.
I don't think they'd risk it because it's her. They're taking this parenting thing way more seriously now for her. And for the next one I guess.
"So you want me to do this to repay EVERTHING that you did for ME?"

"Please remind me of what those things are so that I know EXACTLY how much care I should be providing on your behalf."

"If you need some time to come up with something please feel free to get back to me on that.  But I suspect that once you've actually given it some thought you'll realize that you really don't want me to provide my 2 year old sister with only the same level of care that you have provided me with because you actually seem to care about her."

I just cannot for the life of me understand how they would have the utter gaul to ask anything of you "to repay everything they have done for you" with a straight face.  Let alone that you would somehow agree that this would be a reasonable request given how they have treated you.

OP I am so sorry that you have had to live with these horrible people instead of with a family that would love, appreciate and support you.  As a mom, hearing the neglect that you have had to endure breaks my heart.  Sending you big Mom hugs. 🫂🫂🫂
Not even the bare minimum. They did not pick up their phone when OP was sick in school!! School has noticed that OP's parents do nothing. That means they are doing less than the bare minimum.
Sweetheart, trust me, the Golden Child can end up more screwed up than the Black Sheep/Scapegoat - but I suspect you know this.  The Golden Child has to learn very hard lessons once they find out the world doesn't worship them like their parents do.

Your parents may not have cherished you, but I bet your daughters love you and cherish you. Your so-called parents have missed out on an awesome human. I wish you all the love in the world. <3
I had my first when I was 19. I was in an abusive relationship. My daughter looks so much like him, but I couldn't fathom not loving her. She is able to communicate anything to me and my husband (who adopted her) without "bothering us" or worry about getting into trouble no matter what it is. When we had our youngest, we always made her feel just as special. There's almost a 6 year age gap, but they are super close. I take time to ask her if she feels like I'm not spending enough time with her, and she always tells me that me and her daddy and I make her feel just as special as her sister. 

OP, I wish I could take you in 💔 you can ALWAYS dm day or night if you need to talk. Your "birth givers" are disgusting people, and you deserve the world.
Also, OP has NOTHING to give back, they did only what was legally required and barely that, and they OWE that to OP because they are the parents and that's the deal. They are indebted to OP not the other way around.
for real, op's sister is just a little kid who also had no say in any of this.
Exactly!! I didn't pick them or pick being born. They had more control than I did but decided to screw me up instead.
Military? Where most women report being sexually assaulted, often to the point of actual rape? Not the best option, even though it provides a good starting point if you have no resources.
She can't be with them at the clinic they're attending. I don't think they would because they'd be worried if I say no I really wouldn't treat her like they want.
YES! Wish I could upvote this a thousand times.
I have no extended family. They didn't want me to be a thing because my parents were so young and so I never had them in my life. Know nothing about them other than that. I do spend a lot of time at friends houses because they're better spaces than my house.
I don't even know them or where they are so I can't contact them.
CPS won't do anything. They don't get involved with stuff like this. They were called. My school had to tell me why nothing happened.
An enormous, outlandish amount and cash up front or no deal.  OP can tell them she has to treat them with suspicion because they have never been reliable so "sorry ma'n'pa nothing but cash up front".  After all it's not 'family' it's business when they deal with their 'trial run' baby.
18. I might be able to get away at 17 if I can stay with a friends family but it would need to be something they'd agree to and they might not.
CPS wouldn't take me from my parents anyway. But I think I would rather take my chances if they would take me.
I don't have a relationship with her and I don't think I ever will. I just can't really see us as family when I don't have one with them. Plus I'll be gone in 3 years or maybe less... hopefully.
I don't think it will. They seem to actually love and care about her. They started a savings account for her and everything which I never got. They even made wills after she was born so she could be cared for if something happened to them. First time they ever did that.
I don't think I'm going to start spending time with her. In three years or less, hopefully, I won't ever see her. I won't try and be a part of a family I'm really not a part of. I don't hate my sister. I just don't really see us as family or siblings. We're blood but nothing else.
It's because they won't support me for longer and they hardly support me now. They do the minimum so they don't get into trouble, especially now but if I stayed after 18 they wouldn't let me eat or drink a thing that's their.
I have not and I really don't see the point. I'm not chasing them down and wearing them down to talk to me. If a signature is too much a conversation would be too.
My mother didn't know my eye color or that I have curly hair. I was in my 30s, but she had told me all throughout my childhood that I was "born with curls so tight she was worried my hair would be a rat's nest."
Man, even I don't know my eye color. They were blue when I was born, but now they look greenish/grayish.

But then again, I was also born with black skin color and black hair, to the point where even my older brother didn't know who I belonged to.
My dad didn’t know my age when I was 19.  I overheard him tell my aunt the wrong age on the phone.  I corrected him and he said “Well you know what I meant.”  Dude, YOU didn’t even know what you meant.
Good parents would at least base their answer on favorites they've observed in previous years

OP's parents wouldn't have an answer at all
Your parents are bad parents and bad people for neglecting you   This is totally their fault. People have kids at younger ages that they did and still manage to be decent parents 


 I hope you remember that this is a reflection of the horrible people they are, and in no way related to you as a person. Work hard and be able to leave as soon as you legally can.  


 The best revenge will be to lead a good life and cut all contact with them once you can at 18. 
“Paying back” is not how having a child works. That’s called being a parent and it sounds like they did the bare minimum and just short of being negligent.
Darling, you shouldn't have to be used to it. There's a thing called 'normalisation', and you've probably heard about it, seeing as the internet's been around for a while now. Back when I was young, we didn't have the 'net, so it was harder for us to get information.

Basically, when we're young, what we're shown is what we see as normal. It doesn't matter what it is: over-spoiled kids become entitled little shits, and neglected kids see being neglected as normal. That second one's you.  It's not normal. 

Them saying "to pay back all we did for you" is laughable. You could tell them, "How can I pay you back for a few hours a week you didn't even give to me?" Alternatively, you could say, "What you did was the very bare legal minimum, and that's being more than generous. You *had to* provide certain things to me, by law, and you barely did that. I have nothing to pay you back for."

Big hugs, sweetheart, and I'm so sorry.
Start now with making plans to leave when you finish high school.
Gather your important documents (ID, birth certificate, social security card). 
When you can get a part-time job and save, save, save.
In your senior year apply for as many scholarships as possible.

Lean on those persons who will support you.

Best to you. Take care.

Updateme
Also, OP, i know you're young but please dont ever EVER let them guilt trip you with "you need to repay us for xyz". You dont owe them ANYTHING. Not a single minute of your life. They chose to have you
Reach out to their parents and families on their side. Let them know how they treat you.

They disowned your parents, not you. It’s worth a shot, especially with them abusing you. Tell them you don’t want anything from them, just a connection. A feeling of having a family. No money, no gifts, nothing material.

Talk to a teacher. Tell them everything. Call CPS and ask for options. Prepare for your escape, even if you can’t before you turn 18, make sure you’ll be able to on this exact day.
OP, look into emancipation. Get as much evidence as you can, get a job, have a friend's parent open a bank account for you if you, and gather all your documents. Don't let them leave your sister with you. If they try, just leave the house. Tell a trusted adult what's going on, see if in the very worst cases if you can stay with them if you absolutely need.
The fact that you're used to it makes it worse. You had to normalize not being being loved or even getting emergency care. All that shaped the structures of your brain as they were developing. Neglect like what you experienced causes failure to thrive and worse. Now they're going to get new kids and lavish them with attention,  but they're no more capable of love than they were with you. If they haven't figured out that you're a real person who is deserving of love, support, guidance, pride, care, joy and everything else kids need, there's no way they'll be able to provide that. They're fussing over your sibling about the way they would a new puppy, and they're going to lose interest if that puppy doesn't figure out how to worship and adore them really fast. 

You're NTA in any way. Your parents are not capable of love or empathy. I'm so sorry they are such assholes and have treated you like an inconvenience. You did nothing to deserve that and you owe them nothing.
I'm so sorry you've had to grow up this way.

If you haven't already, make sure to get your important paperwork. Start looking at college or trade school, basically anything to get yourself out. When you're old enough, get a part-time job and save up.
 I'm  so sorry this is how they have treated you, no one deserves that.  You also do not owe them anything. As parents they are legally required to care for you you don't owe them for doing it. 

You mention your parents were disowned by their families for having a kid so young. Have you ever had contact with your extended family? From the way you wrote it you haven't, but with how you have described your parents I wouldn't be surprised if they burned those bridges.   It may not be a good idea while you are still underage but maybe once you are 18 see if you can maybe get to know them.
You can always call CPS on you.
Yes, the practice run did teach them something. It taught them how NOT to parent. Now they're going to "attempt" to do things correctly.
Hear me out on this. I would figure out a way to contact your grandparents. Write to them let them know how they have neglected you and you feel so absolutely alone and would like to know the people you came from. Your parents have painted them as horrible people but you don’t really trust anything they say. 

Sometimes in life we have to build your own family. It sucks now but you are almost across the finish line of adulthood and never looking back. One gift they have given you is resilience. Go live your best life and never ever help them.
Stick to your guns. Threaten to call the police on them if they leave you alone with a baby.
Your parents are terrible
Wow. Your parents are abusive. You are under no obligation to babysit your siblings. I hope you have access to a school counsellor so you can discuss this abuse, and the best way to proceed.
For what it’s worth, and I know it isn’t worth much - losing out on a childhood is not a light thing to move on from, you’re going to be a great adult that treats people with kindness and respect.

Please take care of yourself FIRST, above anyone else, for several years. Burnout is very real for kids that don’t get to be kids.

I’m 27 now and it’s finally hit me after all the years of working way too hard to make my own way. I’m proud of what I did, but so very tired.

Practice self care and learn what deep rest feels like to you - these will be invaluable skills through your life.

Wishing you the best!
You should show your parents this thread
Op, do you have any grandparents' aunts or uncles you could stay with every now and then for a break from this household? 

Your nta, but I would look for ways you can be at the house less. A family member a after school maybe a job if you want some side cash.
NTA and next time call CPS op. They should have a wake up call for how they treat you
You should tell them that. Especially in front of relatives/friends.

Bring it up as a funny story. "Oh yeah they are great parents to [sister], don't know where they learned that from - certainly not me!"
Paying back for all they did for you?!? WTF! You didn’t ask to be born. Putting a roof over your head and feeding you is the least they can do. You don’t owe them a cent or a minute of your time.
NTA Make yourself busy with after school activities and start planning on leaving for college (or whatever) in three years. I’m sorry you’re going through this but remember, this is a temporary situation. You have sh!t parents but that’s on them, not you.
OP I'm so sorry for what you have amd still are going through.  I was a teen when I had my son who is now 25 yo. It was hard for me, being a single teen mom and stuff. Regardless of the struggles I always put him first. I met my now husband when he was 6ish. I still made sure my son was always my main priority. I always told him he was my the one and only keeper of my heart (drum). He is the only one who has ever heard my drum beat from the inside of me. therefore, he is the one and only soul who's opinion matters to me. My son moved out at 19ish and has his own life. Yet he still mssgs me almost daily. Most of the time it's to say good morning mom/ I love you. Sometimes to talk shit and vent. Sometimes to share highlights of his day/life. Being a young parent is no excuse for being a crappy parent.  You will be ok. If you ever need a parental advise you can mssg me. I'll be your Reddit momma, I know that tons of our fellow redditor parents agree with me and are more than willing to also be here for you if you need to talk, vent...
No Hun, you are just burying it . When you get to your adult life, look to therapy. Speaking as someone who is dealing with it decades later.
I'm also sorry you were abused ( neglect being a very common form of abuse)

On a lighter note, I call my older children my guinea pig babies, but my oldest loves it and will try to use it to persuade me to let her do things
I think Reddit is good for venting, which you do need, but more importantly, you need to make a plan for yourself. Do you have a job? Some savings (preferably in a way your parents can't access)? Do you plan to go to college? Or a trade school?
I mean you’re really smart and you’re making perfect sense with your parents. Stand steady 
nta i am sorry your parents are ah, don't help them out at all
OP, hun, I'm so sorry you're having to go through this. 

My Mum was 19 when she had me. My father was 29. My father has always hated me. My Mum threw her everything into raising me, and then my brothers. It's not age that made your parents thus way. They're just assholes. 

You deserved loving parents. You deserve loving parents. No child is a practice run. There's no 'real deal' as parents. You have a baby and that is it. You're a parent, no practice run. If I were you, I probably wouldn't want to babysit either. But what I will say, is that your sister is innocent in this mess, just as you are. Your parents are terrible. So, hopefully, any resentment you have will be for your parents who deserve it. I know it's not easy. My father hated me but adores my brothers. I'm glad that I could find it in me not to hate and be resentful of them. It wasn't their fault that my father favoured them. 

Honestly I'd make plans so that you can remove yourself from the situation. You can legally leave at 18. Figure out where you want to go and do it. Don't let your parents ruin your life. They may be assholes. But you can walk away from it and build a life for yourself.

I wish you all the best.
Man I wish I could give you a big hug throughout all this. You don’t deserve to feel that way and your tyrant parents if u can even call them that atp are fucking monsters. Honestly, I’d stay with friends for good tbh. Cause now that they’re having more kids, they’re gonna try to use you more and more and that abuse is just gonna get way worse. You should probably get CPS involved cause this is gonna have a HUGE impact on you now and probably later on.
The practice they got was seeing a kid raise themselves. Or, the "village" do it for them. 

15 years ago, people took pity: young parents, with a  child, and no other family (grandparents) to help. They let you stay at their house and fed you. 

This time will be different. Mom is in her 30s she had better step up. If your little sibling ends up free range looking for a meal, CPS will visit. 

Stick to your guns and get out as soon as you can. You are not responsible for raising their baby.
I was pregnant at 19 and had my boy 2 weeks before I turned 20. I love my son to death and I would do anything for him. I work hard and often and my husband too. I hope my son becomes an even better version of me and my husband. 

My mother had me at 35 and I had a great childhood and my mom always supported me and is a fantastic grandmother. So two different ages and same outcome. Parents make mistakes. 

But your parents? They fucked up. Majorly! I‘m so sorry that they neglected you and never acknowledged you. They blame it on being so young but they are shitty people and their characters are to blame. 
I hope you can get everything you deserve out of life and you can move on at 18. I hope you cut them off. They don’t deserve you
Just wanted to say I'm proud of you for sticking up for yourself, that's something not many adults can do!
It's so bad of your parents to treat you this way. I hope you study study study and get a full ride scholarship to college so you'll get a good high paying job. And of course cut contact when you get to college, make lots of friends who'll invite you to their parents houses during breaks. If you hear about your parents saying how they in ANY way had something to do with your accomplishments, shut that down real quick
NTA.
They want babysitting services. 
You should start by asking for 15-20$ an hour, if you want the job at all.
They had you and neglected you.
Now they want to guilt trip you for free child care? Out of convenience?
NOPE.
Then they should have treated their first child as a loved and valued member of the family rather than an unwanted inconvenience to be shoved aside and neglected until they need something, hmm?
Next time you're sick at school and your parents don't answer, if possible call one of your friends parents to pick you up.
Your parents having more children will never make up for them failing as parents, they already failed, they already failed your sibling/siblings by failing you! They would have to make things right with you to have any sort of redemption but they’re such narcissistic aholes with their heads so far up their own that they’ll never see the light, I’ll honestly be shocked if their marriage lasts!
Please get a job as soon as you can so you can begin to save up to move out as soon as you are old enough
Hang on there when you graduate high school. You can go full NC. 
Go to a college far away and don't look back.
Live your BEST LIFE away from them.

They are not and never have been your parents.
Just dropping in to point out that you can petition to be emancipated at 16. If you have friends who would let you stay with them, you should look into it.
My heart breaks just reading this. You deserved so much better than this. It’s like they know on some level how they screwed up with you, and are determined to make it up, but with the new baby and not with you. 

Like they’ve written you off and this is their “real” kid because they wanted the pregnancy. 

Hold your ground. Don’t help them. Get yourself out of their house as soon as you can support yourself independently. 

Tell them you’re going no contact. They’ll try to guilt you. They’ll claim you need to have a relationship with your sibling. Remind them that they’ve made it clear who they believe is really part of the family and you will leave them alone to play perfect parents and you will live your life. 

I wish you nothing but the best. 

You deserved better. And your parents are prime examples of the types of people who don’t deserve the kids they have. 
Depending on what state you're in, you could ask if one of your friends parents would be willing to take you in under kinship foster care or a guardianship. Both basically transfer custody of you to them. That family would then qualify to get medical, tanf and snap for you until you turn 18. If it's kinship foster care they would also get a monthly subsidy to help offset the cost of your care.

Note that I did not say your parents would pay anything. That's because they won't. Once they no longer have custody they no longer have a say in what goes on. It's not the same as terminating their parental rights, but it does cut them off from having any say in how you're raised.
I’m sorry this is happening to you. Maybe check out r/raisedbynarcissists and see if anything there resonates. You’re not alone. 
Can you ask to go into foster care where you live? It might at the very least trigger some family therapy and give them a wake up call
Hey OP, I'm so sorry you're having to go through this. Growing up, my dad was one of seven kids and was constantly neglected, used, and abused by his mother. She was an evil woman, but my dad found a way out at 14 through emancipation. 

If you live in the US, there is a process where you can become emancipated before you're 18 and basically get rights that are equivalent to an adult, including the ability to live independently. If you have a support system of adults through your friends, as well as a school counselor, and the financial means to find a way to support yourself, you should look into this. It's a way to get out sooner and start the life you deserve.
INFO: i understand that their parents disowned them, but is there any possible way you could try to contact them? i know it is a very long shot, but maybe after all this time if they hear about the results of them disowning their children being an innocent child suffering most of their life, they’d welcome you in? are any of the parents of the friends whose houses you stay at truly aware of the extent of this situation? would you be comfortable speaking to them about trying to find you resources to get out of it?
They're effectively parentifying you by forcing you into the caregiver role. You shouldn't be forced into this given your age, much less the incredibly neglectful manner in which they've treated you.


You're NTA. It sounds like your parents are chasing a dream rather than facing up to the realities of what parenthood means. Hoping you have some reliable friends' families you can lean on.
You could tell them that you will give their miracle baby the same sort of treatment they gave you i.e. abusive neglect and resentment.  See how that helps them to decide to hire a babysitter rather than explain to CPS why they left their infant with someone who is mirroring their parenting skills.
If offered at your high school, take duel credit classes.

As I and others have stated, begin now making plans to leave when you finish high school.
Leave go NC and don't look back.

You've got this‼️‼️‼️
 Also, get therapy in the future.
That is good to know!  Some validation can go a long way even if it is just in passing.
If you let your teachers or schools homeless liaison officially know that you spend more time at friends homes than your own that can trigger some (1) extra support for you and (2) help you qualify for the Pell grant and extra college assistance if that pathway is a goal for you
Make sure you Teflon any of the slightest help they ask for:
"I'm too young got be a parent! I wouldn't know what to do!" even if it's to hold something for a second.

If any of your basic needs aren't being met you can call cps for a well check for yourself (or have a friend's parent do so). Consequences are higher now that they have a kid they'd be afraid to lose.

Sorry you're in this situation though :(
DITTO!  The golden child develops no strengths and is a sitting duck when real life comes along.  Meanwhile the unloved and abused child has developed all sorts of strengths and insights.  I have seen my two brothers be spoiled and coddled and neither one is in any way successful.  Once the cushioning of doting parents is no longer useful the spoiled baby is let loose into a world that doesn't want him.
❤️
I’d tell them that they failed in every way possible in their ‘trial run’ if they thought of OP as their trial run to begin with.
You can be successful, keep working hard.   Great revenge later in life after they spend tons of money on your sister.  She needs a prom dress, graduation gown, pay for her wedding.  Just say no.   This will be subtle revenge
And that's exactly what you say to them. I mean it seems completely redundant but they need to hire a babysitter or someone who has more experience with babies. If they refuse just throw it back in their face about neglecting their "golden child" and that you're in your legal right to call CPS. If this is the only way to get through to them then it's unfortunate but they brought this upon themselves.
And hey OP just a hint.  Don't let people out there guilt you into "just let it go, it's over now" type of thing.  It will never be over.  Abuse, neglect, resentment, dismissal.  All that stuff goes on and on for the victim until it is worked through.  Many people just want you to shut up about it and put a good face on what for you has been a tragedy and life changing.  It is their own squeamishness and lack of empathy.  So until you have it all worked through and you feel validated and have it sorted you owe it to no one to 'put a good face on it'.  That includes your little sister etc.  I have worked mine through and so have many others but we don't owe anyone a fake smile.
That's the best strategy then. If I were you I'd get myself a job and start saving up as much money as you can so you can move out when you want, just make sure it's at a bank they don't know about so they can't have access to your money.

Again, I'm sorry about your defective parents, they sound emotionally stunted.
OP, if you're already welcome at your friends homes it's because their parents want you there. I recommend thinking about which family would most likely be able to take you in and ask that friend if you can ask their parents if you can stay with them until you finish high school. You might be surprised about how much your friends' parents care about you. If the first family you ask can't do it try asking another one. Being told no might hurt, but you are absolutely worth trying and fighting for. 

I'm sorry that you have to fight for yourself. Please fight for yourself.
I hate to say this, but if all you know about your parents' families comes from your parents then you are only getting their side of the story, considering how unreliable your parents have been, I would call that into question. Time also has a way of changing peoples perspective and it's possible some family members may regret how things went.

A genealogy site, your parents names (mothers maiden name will help a lot), their birthdays, their anniversary, these things will help get you started if they never told you any relatives names or ever mentioned where they grew up.
In addition to neglecting you your parents could also be lying about the extended family. It might be worth the effort to verify some of that, on your own, in time.
Do you know their names & what state or town your parents are from? With a bit on online public records searching you could track down an address or phone number
Right. Pay for so many hours up front.
Have you looked into emancipation? In some states you can do that at 16. Also do you know your social security number/have your card? Depending on the agency you can freeze your credit at individual agencies, some at age 14, which I recommend. It is amazing that you were thinking about finding and keeping your birth certificate! If you have a phone take photos of any other information you can get about vaccinations or any of your parents information like their driver’s license or their important papers will help you if you decide to emancipate or cut contact with them when you turn 18. If there is a parent of one of your friends that you really trust and respect ask if you could keep a locked box at their house (but don’t tell the friend just the parent in case you have a falling out with the friend) and in it put your birth certificate, cash that you start earning, necessary documents and any mementos you might want to keep. In many states you can start working without parental consent at 15, but you will need to get a job that pays with a check or cash as you need parental consent at most banking institutions to open an account under the age of 18.
No harm in asking. Unfortunately you are going to have to learn how to think outside the box, in order to get help for yourself. Take a few risks, and put in a bit of work to get started. Your parents are never going to do the right thing by you, and it is not your fault. But you have to think past just “refusing to babysit” if you are going to escape from this mess. The goal here is to help you move forward to a better life, not just refusing to babysit. It will be some work but you will be proud of yourself as you take steps forward. Do some thinking, make a plan of what you think you can actually do to move forward, and ask for help with it. You are more capable than you realize, but you will have to teach yourself about putting in some effort to accomplish a goal because your crappy parents don’t even know how to do it yet so they can’t teach you. Best of luck to you. There is some really good advice on this thread, you should read over it a few times and use it to your advantage.
WOW. What gross humans. I am so sorry their preferences are so gross and so obvious. ☹️
That is also fair. better not create an attachment, i suppose
In another comment you mentioned your grades aren’t good, and while you have time to work on that, it wouldn’t be bad to explore your other options. Do you have a teacher you trust? If yes, I would ask them for advice, and be as honest as you feel comfortable being about your parents and situation. Be clear that you likely will need to find a way to fully support yourself once you turn 18 and that parental support through university/trade school/whatever is not going to happen. They make have connections or know about resources you can utilize.
My parents joked that I was the mailmans child, because I had blue eyes and no one in our family has blue eyes lmao The mailman had blue eyes though.
I think they call that eye color hazel
Yep. One of my best friends had her first kid at 18 (got pregnant at 17) and she would never treat her kid like this. I’m sure she’s made parenting mistakes, but *normal mistakes*, not full blown neglect and emotional abuse.
this!! my mom was a “bad” kid, got suspended, smoked weed, got in physical fights, and got pregnant at 18 with me. she stopped everything when she found out and started attending community college to get a nursing degree. while i was in elementary school, she was working towards getting her master’s degree and still did everything a parent should do. 21 years later, she’s now a successful nurse practitioner who provides me with the opportunity to pursue my dream at an out-of-state university, something she was never able to do. i’ve never once been made to feel resented by her but i do sometimes get in the mindset of wishing it hadn’t happened so that she could’ve followed her dreams.
This is wonderful advice OP! As once a young parent myself I want to apologize for how they treated you. You don’t deserve this and when you are old enough RUN and don’t look back. I have had to do this myself because my parents were not good parents either. I had to create my own family with my children and wonderful friends and my children’s family members as well. You can and will have an amazing life. I believe in you sweetie!!
100%. My cousin had a kid at 15 and never treated her son like this. Could she have been better? Probably, but she has an awesome relationship with him and never made him feel unloved. OP's parents are horrible people. My cousin didn't even have help from the guy that got her pregnant and did a better job than OP's parents. (Her Dad helped her, so she wasn't alone, but still).
This.

I wish I was somewhere near this situation because I would turn the flamethrower on these two in public and embarrass them to the extent that they would question their disgustingly narcissistic existence.
I got pregnant at 19 and did everything I could to be a good mom to her. She's 19 now and a great young adult. She knows I love her and I showed up for her consistently. 
My joke was that I never had more children because I "didn't need a do-over cuz I got it right the first time."
One of my great friends had her son at 18, seperated from her partner (Kid's dad) and still manages to be a good parent.
agree with this so hard. wouldn’t want to suggest NC for anything other than extreme and this is EXTREMELY FUCKED
Exactly this!

I had my kids at 17, 19, 21, and 32. While none of them were planned and we struggled for a bit, I would never say any of them were a practice run or neglect them. 

I was at every conference and even worked at their schools for a time because it was important that not only my kids but the schools know that I am a fully involved parent, regardless of my age. 

Homework was checked every night, I rarely missed an extracurricular activity, and they were shown love and respect daily. When my kids got older, ours was the house that all their friends loved coming to because I treated every one of them like my own and built relationships with their parents (sometimes to be friendly, others to better understand their family dynamic) so they felt safe. 

You deserve better and appear to have a firm grasp on the fact that their foolishness is a poor reflection of them, not you. I hope you are able to lean on those who support you and cut ties with the AHs as soon as you're able. 

NTA
Agreeing with this; one of the absolute best parents I know became one at 14 due to an abusive partner who tried to use the child to control them. Luckily they were able to leave with their little one, and 15+ years later both my friend and their teenager are doing pretty dang well
While true...the gem hidden in this is that both of OP's grandparents disowned her parents for having her? That's just as bizarre...the "hurt people, hurt people" syndrome. Hopefully OP can break the cycle. As a dad I hate stories like this with a passion.
And maybe try to reach out to the extended family, like grandparents?
I agree. Karma will come. When they are old sick. Betcha no one will be there.
Actually, it seems like they have done substantially less than the bare minimum. Now they also want to pawn off raising the new baby to her.
Raising children is paid forward usually, tragically they missed that memo with you. I'm so sorry and hope you can lean on your actual support.
Don't let them fool you into this "pay back" thing. You will never get over it if you do. It will become a habit for the rest of your life. You will start to feel you owe anyone who ever does anything good for you. I'm 67 and I still do it out of habit. I live in an adult family home, and I help out around the house with the excuse to "pay back" the owners for being good to me. My caregiver tells me that's dumb, even after I explained why. 

So, listen to the other advice when they say to get out when you can, and don't start that pattern of doing things as "pay back" or because they are your parents. They aren't your parents; they are just landlords who allow you to live rent free. You don't owe them anything. They made their choices and now THEY have to live with them.
This is the best response I have read. You sound like an amazing person.  


OP the biggest revenge is to move out when you can and make an amazing life and never look back. You will find someone that will love you. Good luck.
Exactly this ⬆️ 👆
It is not normal, I have to tell myself that every day, it took me being almost 30 and feel embarrassed about telling the shit I endured to realize it is not f normal
Also lock your credit so they can’t use you for extra funds if they’re cutting off work for their new damily
Also check your credit and see if you have been identity thefted. or correct English, had your identity stolen.
Also find someone you trust to help sponsor a bank account for you. Your parents cannot be trusted not to steal your bank account.
Even if you do not drive, get a state-issued ID. Ask a friend’s parent for help as an ID, like a driver’s license, needs copies of bills and other things to prove you live where you say you do. It will take a while to gather these documents.
All of this above. ALSO, when you get closer to 18, it might be worth checking into getting emancipation for yourself, especially if you have university plans. If you are an emancipated minor, only your own income is used to apply for financial aid, which could save you a fortune and help you get a great education. If not emancipated, both of your parents’ income is used as well and you likely won’t qualify for much. I doubt your parents will be much help to you with this either. Your school counselor could probably help you with this so you can prepare yourself. Best of luck to you and remember that living well is always the best revenge. You have some coming, a lot of it.
You tell them that you will "repay" them when you have your own kids and show them the love and care they deserve the way your parents never did for you.
There is also the very real possibility that “disowned by the whole family” is a complete  fabrication (BOTH sides of the family? Really?) Reach out and try to establish ties with your relatives, OP.  Even if it takes a while to meet them, it would be nice to have grandparents, and aunts and uncles……and cousins!  Take it slow. As far as “you owing them” …….they did the bare minimum to stay out of jail.  They only did what they are legally obligated to do. And that absolutely sucks. I am so very sorry.
I wouldn't know how to do that. I know nothing about their families. I don't know their names or where they are or anything.

My teachers know what's going on. Most of my teachers have been really aware of how bad things are because of my parents ignoring contact from the school since I was in kindy.
No, I never had contact and I don't really know anything about them. They were out of my parents lives before I was born.
This is why abusive parents are so desperate for grandchildren. I went NC and never had kids, no second chance to fuck up more peoples lives for them.
I have no idea who they are or where they are so I can't do that.
Call child protective services and turn them in. They'll be mad, but CPS can step in and force them to straighten up.
I'm sorry you had to experience that. I'll try to remember to rest!
“Burnout is very real for kids that don’t get to be kids.” 

As a 36 year old who spent her life being the parent to her own parents, that hits too close to home.  Totally agree with you on learning to practice self care early, it’s a hard skill to develop the older you are.
Yes, except if they are so lacking in self awareness that they can behave the way they do they will not recognize themselves.  It's their protection from the truth that will kick in to prevent having to face what they truly are.  The baby sister will probably grow up to despise them and use them.  It often works that way.
It won't do any good to do that.
No, like I said, there's no extended family I know. They didn't want to know me/us because my parents had me so young.
CPS won't do anything for me. My school knew what happens and they reported some stuff but I was told because I show up clean and with food they won't do anything to help me. Emotional stuff isn't counted.
There are no relatives. They have nothing to do with us. I never even met them and their friends heard them say they don't want their daughter to be an only child so their friends know.
I don't have a job or savings or a bank account. I can't get a job without my parents consent either. My plans for the future aren't solid right now because my grades aren't that good.
My grades were never that good and I don't think I have it in me to get a full ride scholarship. I'm not one of the top students in my school even.
Yep. Or at the very least said they realized they fucked up when they developed these parental instincts and acknowledged me as someone who didn't ask to be here.
They can't do that because they aren't listed for me. My parents would need to add them to a pick up list or whatever.
And don't give them any access to the money... I have a funny feeling that you'd have none left
I’m thinking OP *needs* to do this because it might not even be her choice once she turns 18. 

NTA
I can already see the post "AITA for not lending money to my parents after mom decided to be a SAHM?"

The answer will obviously be no.
I had parents similar to this. I want you to know OP, this is the best advice. Life goes on and at some point you’ll be able to look back and know that there was pain, but you’ll be able to see how far you’ve come and the pain won’t affect you like it once did.
I don't know where OP lives but yes find the equivalent of legal emancipation! I've known a few people who have done it and come out so much better for it.
yes they can but it's not an easy road. I'd, personally work and save until 18. At least the roof over their head is paid for.  I know someone who did that. It might work out for some but it's sooo much harder and doesn't work for many. Especially in this economy.​​
u/SignificantFan8104 please take this advice seriously. I bet you that your best friend's parents have noticed how little contact or participation in your life your parents have had. I bet they know you are having a tough time and being neglected, and I bet they are waiting for you to say something before jumping in and saying something without 100% knowing that's the case.

If you trust your friend and have a really good relationship with their parents, this might honestly be the best path forward. You deserve better, and you deserve a chance to salvage the few years of your childhood you have left and replace all those shitty memories with good ones.

I bet your parents can't even name your favorite food, color, class, band, etc. Sit with your friend's parents if you think they are willing to listen and just explain to them what you have explained here, how little they care about your school life, and definitely mention how they literally neglected you to the point of leaving you sick and alone to enjoy what they called a "family day" which is such a shitty dig at a child, and an awful thing for parents who have done *nothing* for you. 

Have them help you look into all the avenues stated above as far as emancipation and getting TANG and SNAP benefits and fostering you with extra money to support you if possible. Choose the people you think would listen to you the most. Just please try and leave that environment.

I don't think they will ever be good parents, and it sounds like they are already over the honeymoon phase of the first baby and moving on to number two. I'm so sorry about this. 

I know it might not be worth it to you either, but maybe tracking down your extended family like an aunt or uncle or even grandparent might be worth it. People make rash decisions and they might regret that they did, and hearing from you and about how awful they have treated you may turn out to yield positive results like them taking you in to make up for lost time and what they did, but again that is *totally* up to you. If you feel like there is no point and you have no connection to them, don't bother.

Just please have a sit down at the least with your bestie and their parents and lay out what is happening, how you feel and absolutely have been neglected, and the solutions the person above listed out as ways to help you get out of the situation if they are willing to at the very least help you start the process of filing for emancipation and going from there if they can't/don't necessarily think they can take you in.

I'm so sorry OP. Your parents are not parents at all. They're straight up delusional monsters. As many have said before, the best revenge is going on to live a good life, whatever that means for you, and cutting them out of your life.
No, this wouldn't be enough. They would have to willingly give me up but they don't want to pay support.
I don't have the money to support myself. I'd need parental consent to get a job too so that's not really an option for me. The money I'd earn wouldn't be enough to afford my own place, which is what you need to be able to do to get emancipated. My friends have tried to figure out ways around it for me but you need to fully support yourself. I couldn't do that.
I know nothing about them so that isn't possible. I wouldn't even know their first names or anything. A couple of my friends houses know the deal. They've had enough shit with my parents to realize what's going on. Not sure if they'd help me like that though.
I’d expect the friend’s families to be a better resource than the grandparents. They knew there was an innocent child involved from the beginning. 
If the OP's parents were, in fact, disowned by their families for the 'crime' of having a baby when they were young, they don't sound much like the kind of people you'd go to to seek help. The friends' parents sound like a better bet in terms of support.
In US, a minor needs parents permission to get a bank account. The parent also has control over it too.
I don't know any of that info. I never did.
I don't even think I could form much of an attachment and if I let her, it would be cruel to then disappear. But I really need to be away from my parents. They're not healthy for me.
Someone I work with had a baby at 17. That same year, lost her license and overall, wasnt a great teenager. This grown woman at 23 has a 5 year old, a car, house, and her kid is so well loved and cared for. Took a weekend off (we work weekends) to make sure her little guy had all his vaccinations and teeth cleaned.

Its wild to think they "had it hard" and treated their kid like they dont exist when yeah, lots of families "have it hard". They still remember their kids birthdays and take time off for them.
Agree! I was 19 and when I made the decision to keep him I made sure he would have the absolute best life possible! He is now 26 and in medical research and I couldn’t be more proud! Equally he is my biggest cheerleader because he knows how very hard I worked to support him and be there through everything!
I had my daughter at 16. Raised my brother from the age of 13. Yes I made some mistakes, especially as a 13 yr old "mother". But I did my best and they got all the love and attention I could give them. I even braved the class Tarantula to be in a parent teacher conference for my daughter ( I have arachnophobia)
Exactly. My sister got pregnant at 15 and would never do that to her son. Her kid is 12 and she has never and would never
I have a friend who became a mother at 16. She was and is a fabulous mother! I know parents who had kids at different ages and they vary a great deal. Your parents neglected you at least. There was likely abuse too. You owe them nothing. This is traumatic and painful for you. Protect yourself, build your own family from friends and other relatives. It would be great if you can get some therapy. 
If therapy is too expensive or hard to get, Alanon or Narcanon is free and a great resource for support. Even if there was no substance abuse in your family the groups are very supportive and welcoming. There are multiple groups and you will be able to find a good fit. You deserve everything good that you have been denied.😘
Pregnant at 18, had her not quite 7 months after turning 19. I can’t imagine her not ever having been my priority. OP’s donors, because I can’t bring myself to call them parents, are crap to say the least. When OP goes NC they will claim to not know why. And when OP does well in life, it will be all thanks to them if you listen to them. And heaven forbid OP have kids. I see OP being a wonderful parent, which the donors will try to take credit for. Cue fake hurt when confronted with “Yes, because I’m doing everything the opposite of how you didn’t raise me.”
My ex and I had our first at 19, then 2 more. She was abusive towards the oldest while I was at work, made her watch the younger two so she could play games online all day (and a whole lot worse). 

After the divorce, my oldest lived with me until she was 27, and doesn’t even acknowledge her mother. 

I wasn’t the greatest parent with my earlier kids, but I tried, which is the most we can do, but I was so young, I had no idea what I was doing.
I know several women who got pregnant in high school . They regret getting pregnant so young and with the losers that they did, but they love their kids and never treat them like they’re not family .
You saved her from a bad pathway ❤️.
The thing is you were her dream. She needed purpose and someone to love. Loving you helped her learn to love herself.
So wonderful to hear and obviously you and your mom are wonderful and compassionate people! Your mom loves you unconditionally and you appreciate her and wish she could have followed her dreams.

The thing is, things happen for a reason and I feel like it’s because of you, she is where she is in life….successful, educated, loving, caring, helping people who need it, as well as being a supportive mom.
Never wish that.  Your mom is exactly where she want to be. Be happy for both of you.
Baby, you were the reason she was able to complete her dreams. Kids most times for most people are the catalyst they need to accomplish what they want in life, because the focus isn’t on them anymore but the “life being” they brought into and serve in this world. 
This is how I felt reading this. Also a young mom and while I think a lot of parents joke that the eldest is the practice kid, it isn't meant like how OPs parents talk about them or it seems mostly ignore them. It's meant as a "we didn't know how to parent and made some mistakes" I love my children as equally as possible by making sure they each know all their stories from when they were babies, and try to make sure they all feel loved, heard and fully a part of our family unit. I do get my eldest to babysit but she certainly doesn't feel snubbed for attention and care from us. The youngest is also not tiny and in need of constant supervision and care. I dunno it just feels like crazy narcissistic parents who think they deserve a do over when that is not how parenting works.
The baby honeymoon phase is over, they need a new one.  I honestly hope the treatments fail because they sure are failing as parents.  I feel sad for OP and her sister.
💕
Thank you. I feel so bad for our poor OP here - it's such a shame the bloody 'parents' can't see how clever and resourceful and amazing OP is. It oozes through the posts, as does the hurt. 

And yes, having an amazing life *in spite of* those alleged 'parents' is what's needed now. 

/u/SignificantFan8104, I'm pointing at you right now - do *not* let those poor excuses of parents ruin your future. Go out there, have an amazing life, and find your one, and break the cycle. I'm sorry, I feel like I'm talking in cliches. I'm just so mad. Also, don't worry, I'm just a little old lady (5'2"), so when I say "pointing at you", I really mean "pointing up at you" haha. When they inevitably hit you up for money or aged care in the future, tell them you've had their names down at Shady Pines for decades.
Honestly, I used to tell people stories of my life, just funny anecdotes of how I was treated, and the people didn't laugh. That's how I found out most of the shit wasn't normal. I'd have been about your age.
This!! 👆👆 When I went to get my first apartment as an adult (in the 1980s), I found out that my mom had used my SSN to get phone service and utilities in my name and then left the bill unpaid.
THIS!
Yup. Found out twenty years after the fact how much my extended family tried to be involved in my life. Still pisses me off. Gently reach out, you need someone properly supportive on your side right now.
On the other hand there are every chance that they were disowned and that's part of the reason they treat op so badly because they blame her for it and not themselves.
Exactly, was told my Dad's side disowned my folks/ us kids. When I was finally an adult & moved out reach out. All lies for sooo many years.
Try Googling both your Parents’ names.  Often it will bring up other people associated with them.  Both of my ex-SIL (20/7 years), are associated w/my name thru my brother.  Also, try the Census for the years they were born. I found my Dad’s long lost Cousin (they were both in their 70s, twenty years ago).
There are ways. When they are out, see if you can find any paperwork for clues. Maybe you can find a high school diploma (for location), or birth certificate for one of them.


Did your parents change their last names? If you have an uncommon last name it may be possible to look on social media. Reach out anyone who may have a resemblance.


Once you turn 18 you can also do genetic testing. It could give you a direct path to your extended family. 


I would suggest that you speak to a therapist if you choose to reach out. Give yourself an outlet to work on anything that comes up. There could be a loving and welcoming family on the other end or it could all go nowhere. 


For what it's worth I agree with the other folks on here, live a good life that you are proud of. These people simply provided the ingredients that made you. Nothing more than simple donors. 


There is a lot of life to be lived once you are able to get out. Break the cycle and live a life you want, on your own terms with no obligation to them.
Would a trusted teacher or friend’s parent be able to help you locate your extended family? Are you comfortable enough to ask for that help? I don’t know anything about the system, but wouldn’t CPS/police be obligated to find your other family if your parents are acting like the *sses that they are? You are so strong and brave and will do great things one day! Please keep us posted. We’re all here praying for and supporting you!!
The fact your teachers know this means you have at least one ally there. (Yes, this is not their job but any empathetic human would want to help in this situation.)

Ask them to help you find your relatives. Maybe somewhere in the records a grandparent was mentioned as a secondary contact person. Maybe one of them has access to a genealogical database like Ancestry. Or maybe they can simply provide advice & emotional support for you to get away from these toxic people.

Feel free to update us on your progress. And when you leave, feel free to not tell them anything: let them know you're gone by the fact your bedroom is empty.
You can almost certainly find them through public records. As long as your parents are using their legal names, there will be records for your mom's maiden name and birth certificates for them both with their parents' names. Try searching for "public records (your county)" and go from there. You might have to go to a physical location like the county clerk's office, but it's likely they'll have something online. Once you have names, you can search for them and probably find recent contact info.
How about little jobs that pay in cash? Like, idk tutoring younger kids? Babysitting? Mowing lawns or something...
I went to college when I was 16 and 17 for almost free via a program called Running Start. There are similar programs around USA, hopefully elsewhere, I have no idea which country you're from. 

Basically I took college classes instead of highschool classes, and I actually stopped pursuing my highschool graduation requirements because the college had an option to gain a HSD with my AA, and their graduation requirements were easier than my highschool's. Of course double check all your options and requirements, this isn't available everywhere. 
I did have to pay for textbooks and registration fees. That's the tough part.
I have kids. I had an oupsi baby. I also had to adopt my nephew way before I was ready for kids.


Let me tell you: there are no parental instincts. 
Your parents just chose to be shitty people. 


If they ever leave the baby with you, call CPS. Now that they have a kid they chose to love, CPS becomes much more of a threat. And know that neglect is abuse, they're abusers and they abused you. They'll probably abuse the new kids as well, so don't feel any guilt for calling CPS and describing everything if they ever abandon you both at home. 


And talk to your friends' parents if you didn't already.
Unfortunately if they ever realise, it will be long after you have probably worked through the issues they gave you from basically ignoring you most of your life. 

I have friends in the exact same position as your parents and I call them out on their shit. I get along with their daughter who's about 25 now. I became her unofficial uncle and doted on her and had her over with my kids. I invite her over at Christmas and she usually spends more time at my place than her parents. She pops by there to give presents, stay for an hour and then leaves. 

My friends are idiots and thing raising their younger kids with extra love and attention makes up for the love they failed to give their first. They're able to do the mental gymnastics to make themselves feel better, but haven't bothered to apologise or make amends to their oldest. 

My parents were shit and so didn't think I'd have kids, so had them once I was truly ready. My kids knew I loved them and can ask me for anything and I always make time for them. You deserve that and your parents are the reason you didn't get that. They need to own that, but probably won't. So be proud of basically raising yourself emotionally.
Have you ever reached out to your extended family? It may be helpful to start a relationship with them and tell them how awful your parents are, they (our maybe your friends) may be open to helping you get out of their house. 

So sorry you have to go through this, I wish I could adopt you *hugs.
Wouldn't that be just so wonderful and validating for you?  Except it is SO unlikely to happen.  People like your so-called parents don't suddenly realize what they truly are and if they do they keep quiet about it.  And they would resent you even more for being the source of finding out what rotten people they are.  You have to somehow come to terms with the fact that they are not worth much as human beings and just let go of the so-called relationship.  But don't be their babysitter and maid-of-all work.  It will only make them despise you more.  That's just how rotten, selfish people are.
Try to be away on days they have their treatment. They can't leave your sibling with you, if "you have to be at school for a project" or "have a shift to cover".
You need to tell a teacher or counselor at school about why your parents didn’t pick you up when you were sick. It’s neglect.
“Oh, Baby NEEDED a Gucci diaper bag!”
Why wouldn't they let you get a job? I could see you being able to manipulate the situation so they believe you getting a job is good for *them* because it means you "won't be such a burden anymore" if you're able to start taking care of yourself. You're almost 16, which will be even easier to start becoming more independent as beyond finding a job, you can get your license and start becoming self-sufficient. If your parents push back, use their words against them. Play it as you're trying to "lessen their stress" and "help stay out of the way" so they can focus on your little sister. All the while you can start saving money and building a plan for how/when you can get out and be ready to support yourself when the time comes.
i really think it would be worth the ask. this situation is extremely terrible. i know it’s probably awkward but maybe talk to the most trusted parents of friends you have in your circle about what’s going on. i know you’ve become numb to the treatment you’ve received, but you deserve a safe space with people who actually care for you. maybe just try.
At some point when your parents (I use the term loosely) are out of the house, start going through their paperwork and finding out as much as you can. Then track down your family from any information you find. 

People leave traces and clues. It's almost impossible to go through life in this society without having to reveal to someone your mother's maiden name, for example.

And for your own sake after you leave when you turn 18, get a copy of your birth certificate and any other information that is relevant to you. Prepare now for the break you know is inevitable.
The grandparents and other family could be awful people. Especially if the story of the parents being  disowned is true. It could be a lie. It could be partially true. It could be it was true then and not as true now.


It might be worth trying to find out more. Though with caution and not getting too emotionally attached to the idea (think of it being like an adopted child looking up bio family--it could be all sorts of answers)


I admit that I would be interested in it if for no other reason than it could blow up in the parent's face 
I would talk to your friends' parents and see if you could stay with them for a bit.
See if you can get access to your parents' birth certificates. Their parents names should be there. Then do a bit of sleuthing to try to find them.
Like kittiekittykitty below; it is so easy to become numb to the abuse after too many years but it might also be a blessing.  Better than having it eat you alive.
Is there a counsellor at your school? Might be good to start there.
If you don't think they would help you, you could go the now drastic route and call the cops on them for child abandonment. All you have to do I tell them your parents left you alone with your baby sister and you know nothing on how to take care of a baby
yeah, just grasping at straws. when it’s emotional abuse and not physical abuse, it’s a lot harder for a teen in this situation to get help.
This is definitely something important to know. I would honestly try and get your hands on one of those online DNA tests like Ancestry or something. Even if you don't feel comfortable reaching out to them now, knowing that info for the future could be very helpful especially when it comes to medical info. My mom wouldn't tell us kids a damn thing about her family before she died and we found a wealth of info online after doing the DNA thing.

Also, to the other Redditor's comment, they could be totally lying to you. What if your extended family DID want to be in your life and your parents hid you away? I'm not saying you were necessarily kidnapped or anything, but with the lack of info they've provided, something is definitely fishy AF from them. If you did a DNA test and put yourself out there maybe there are people who have been looking for you for years and you'd never know it. 

Either way, coming from the oldest of four kids who ended up having to move out at 16, I hope you are able to find some additional family and I wish you the best of luck 💖 You've got this! 💪
Yeah something’s not adding up, CPS may be your best bet! I’m not saying they aren’t your parents but they may not be and could’ve made that story up! You have to take what they tell you at face value with the way they’ve treated you!
OK, I’m sorry. It might be best to call the authorities. My spidey senses are going off - to never mention their own hometown or school seems really off. My mind is wondering if you were abducted or something. Do you have a counselor or teacher you trust at school? Anyone you can talk to about this? From what you described you need help & you’re not alone but you need to ask for help.
You do need to get out, yes.
[removed]
OP‘s story makes me mad, bc I am 31 now and my oldest 13. so her parents aren’t much older then me and treat their child like that? I already kicked doors down in school for my child. I fight for my child as soon something comes her way. Parents like OP‘s make me go ballistic
Beautiful! I wish you both the very best.
Congrats on being a real parent. You took the bull by the horns and did it.
You are a superstar 🌟🌟💫
Agree with this, but need to point out that neglect is abuse as well.
Yeah, my friend also regrets her choice of babydaddy. Dude was a prick. But her kids turned out alright, and she’d never hold their father’s bullshit against them.
she wanted to join the army but found out she was pregnant during the physical. a couple months later, the base she was supposed to go to was deployed to iraq, so we joke that i kept her alive.
Oooof! This was just a beautiful and heartwarming response! 🥹
That is beautiful ! ❤️
❤️
BEAUTIFUL Sentiment.
i’m literally sobbing. thank you for these wonderful words. my mom means the world to me, so hearing this just makes me so emotional
Bingo. The second child is now transitioning from “cute baby” to “annoying toddler” and they don’t want it anymore. They’re the same people they’ve always been. I feel sorry for the sister, I feel sorry for OP, and I feel sorry for any other children they have.
That’s exactly how it has been for me. This exactly. That shit was not normal. Granted I did have a schizophrenic mother, I was doomed regardless. lol in desperation
My husband didn‘t know that his family was excluded from many things because everybody hated his father (who, granted, was an absolute @$$)But it hurt to realize that he and his sisters missed out on a lot of events and get togethers, and that they could have had better, stronger relationships, if it wasn’t for his dad alienating everyone.
That's more work than I want to put into finding them. Especially when it's a huge risk.
Like it or not, CPS ain't going to do shit for op. CPS doesnt consider a older sibling watching a younger sibling for a few hours a week abuse. They dont consider the emotional neglect abuse either. Parents have to be on the verge of nearly killing their kids with abuse or neglect in order for them to step in.
Your description of your friends' behaviour is SO VERY familiar.  My parents were abusive to my sister and I to the point that professionals got involved and warned them.  Their response?  That hated us even more and doted on and spoiled our brothers to make up for what they wouldn't do for us.  People are so messed up.
I hope you mean HAD friends. I would make it a small hobby to call them every day and remind them how shitty they are.
If the extended family did, indeed, banish the parents from the family after they had their baby when whey were teenagers, then that would partly explain the appalling behaviour of the parents. That kind of dysfunction doesn't come out of nowhere. The whole family sounds awful.
I can think of a few reasons but punishing me for being born is one of them. With also a just "I don't care about you" reason. It's like with stuff from school I needed them to sign, I would need to pester them and even then if it's more complicated than a signature I'm pretty screwed since they won't ever reply to my schools. They wouldn't even go in to discuss me staying at school longer for extra help and homework club the few times it came up. That would have been less time I was in their care specifically but they wouldn't do it.
I agree completely. We are poor and don't have much extra space, but we would absolutely take in a friend of one of our children in this situation, or do anything else we could to help. 

OP..none of this is your fault and you are NTA, at all. You "parents" are shitty people. Get a job as soon as you can and save money so you can get out of there. If you think they will take the money you earn, save it in a lock box at a friend's house. You deserve so much more, and I am so sorry that you have to grow up this way. It isn't fair and it isn't right. You don't owe them anything. It is just a few more years until you can build your own life. Stay strong.
You can only ask. We did it two separate times for friends of my boys.
I already have my birth certificate. I needed to look for it for school once. My parents had no idea where it was and I freaked that they tossed it. The thing is tore up but it's something I keep in my room now. Looks so fucking messed up. They'd tossed it in a box of "junk stuff".
CPS was called before but they don't get involved for this kind of thing. It was explained to me after nothing happened when my school called.
This whole thread reminds me of this scene - I’d had a version of this conversation with my own dad. Sydney speaks facts. https://youtu.be/Y4uFfjZ3eHA?si=uUPMYbCFpv7SjCaR
So true and have seen from the 1970's to today.
To me that’s the biggest failure a person can commit. I have no respect for people who fail at their most important job—that they chose to enter into. It’s foolish and selfish. And impacts multiple generations.
Thank you so much! I literally have the best family! The boys still drive me nuts (it doesn’t stop once they are grown! Lol! But the amount of love and laughter between us and their dad makes everything always better!
Thank you. Not sure I'm a superstar. Just a young girl doing her best back then. Now I'm enjoying being a grandma
Wish I could upvote this more!
Your welcome. You and your Mom are amazing people. May you continue to find your way through life together with the light of your love to guide you.
Understandable and valid. Just remember that they're a possible avenue of support if you need it. Your parents may be lying to you about the circumstances, and even if they aren't, your grandparents may not hold you responsible for your parents' fuckups. If they're happy to establish a relationship with you, you potentially stand to get a lot out of it and have more care and stability in life.

On the other hand, they may be awful. But you won't know unless you make the attempt. So keep the possibility in your back pocket, and if you ever feel ready, you now know what to do.
Kids have to be in immediate danger to be removed, but CPS absolutely consider neglect to be abuse and will file it accordingly. They can't do more because they have little funding, but the CPS case will prevent OP's parent from adopting, for example. 


And it'll also be useful if one of the kids ever get hurt because of their godawful "parenting".
>CPS doesnt consider a older sibling watching a younger sibling for a few hours a week abuse.

But if the sibling leaves the house, and the baby is left alone, while the police arrives, that's an entirely different  story...

Like, if OP was ever to put her sister inside the crib while napping, then going to wait at the neighbors house while the police arrive to an empty house and an abandoned baby, that would be a whole different story for CPS

OP definitely should not do this though
I never flinched from calling them out on it. Even in front of their daughter. By staying friends, I stayed in her life and was someone who was in her corner. 

They weren't bad parents, she had everything she needed, minus the emotional support she deserved (and needed). By staying out of their life, they could have just pretended they were perfect and their kid was just dramatic. 

The friendship was and is that I see their kid more (usually with my kids) and I like a true friend held them accountable. A good friend will call you on your shit.
Yeah, the number one reason, I believe that their parents actually disowned them is bc theyre shit parents.  They got.it from somewhere
Have you discussed any of this neglect with your school counselor? While most abuse and mandated reporting cases fall into physical neglect, emotional neglect is just as serious and there are resources available to you for help. I'm assuming your school has to have noticed by now with how unresponsive your parents are and the impact it's having on you. And if they haven't, then that's all the more reason to tell them. If CPS gets involved, they may be able to find your relatives and potentially place you with your grandparents if there is enough evidence of abuse and neglect, and if your parents are willing to sign it off. 

Regardless, there are options for kids in your situation and you are not alone. But in order to get the help you need, you have to take some risks and step outside of your comfort zone to find it.
That is a good idea. It'll also give OP an excuse to not look after their children.
thank you. very good response.
If you’re planning to go to college, start laying the groundwork for a FAFSA dependency override with a school counselor. Exactly what documentation you need depends on the school you’re applying to, but a documented history of child neglect is a good start. It sounds to me like your parents aren’t going to give you their financial information to fill out a regular FAFSA, so you’ll need to prove that you are estranged in order to get financial aid. 

I know you’re reluctant to ask your friends’ parents for help, but they might be willing to let you establish legal residence at one of their houses for a year or so prior to high school graduation. That would go a long way to proving estrangement from your parents. I know that if one of my school friends had been in such a situation, my parents would have welcomed them with open arms.

You can do this, OP. It will be a hard road, but you’re a strong person and it sounds like you have good friends in your corner. Build a life for yourself as an adult and kick your sorry excuses for parents to the curb.
If you can find your parents' birth certificates, their parents will be listed there. You can then use the information and do an online people search to look them up. You could also dig around in ancestry. com or another genealogy site.  You could also call people who are genealogists and they might take your case for free as you are a minor trying to escape abuse and find family to take you in.
NTA. 

Talk to your friends parents about what you should be doing to prepare to leave your home at 18. If you are in America, think about doing running start where you’re doing community college classes at the same time you’re in regular school or doing trade school right the same time you’re in regular school so that you can learn a trade so you can take care of yourself immediately. If I could go back in time and do something to help myself, I would’ve done high school and trade school at the same time so I could work my trade while I took college classes at my own pace to get a degree and then I would have a skill to always fall back on in life.
Go online to your cities Vital Statistics and order a new one. Get your social security card and get a valid state ID.
Ask one of your friends' parents for help.
HIDE your birth certificate in a safe place, maybe at a friend's.  With that you can get a copy of your Soc. Security card.
In the USA, an official copy of your birth certificate is $10-$20 from the town offices in your town to replace. You might well be able to get your grandparent's information at the same time.
Only bad parents are like this. Thankfully, most are worlds better than OP's parents!
I hope that you really enjoy being a grandma. I bet you are the best. With the way the world is, I greatly admire your style and strength.
Repost: This woman is a superstar!🌟💫
i hope you also live life like this as well :)
Documentation from CPS might also be helpful if she later files for emancipation like I suggested above. But OP do not call them because you “abandoned” your sister from next door. It will reflect poorly on YOU if you do try to file for emancipation, as it will seem you are not mature enough to take that step.
This is what people mean when sometimes staying friends with people is hard but worth it. Dropping them would have looked great to others maybe but in actuality would've done nothing to help their kid or your friends' behaviors. You being actively in their life to keep them in check is worth more in my opinion than dropping them for optics and virtue points. I have friends like that and I appreciate it. One of friends left me on the spot and never explained fully why, just vague bad things. Guess which ones I've learned more from? In my book you did the best you could've and now you've got a wonderful non blood related daughter.
I have talked to teachers and my guidance counselor. We don't really have a regular counselor at my school. The schools I've gone to were always aware of how uninvolved my parents are. It started when I was in kindy. But my parents never respond to the school reaching out, they never show up for anything, they ignore requests for meetings and sometimes they get stuff sent that the school just never gets back.

CPS was called because of this but as I was told by my school after, they don't really do anything once I'm clean going to school and getting food. They won't remove me or anything. 

I was always pretty open about stuff. Some teachers stopped getting me to get assignments signed and stuff. They knew it would take me to the very last minute and sometimes it would be late by the time I could get one of my parents to sign.
As friend's parent who has unofficially adopted one of my kid's friends, you'd probably be surprised at the number of people willing to help. He's been a member of the family for about 7 years now. 

When his parents kicked him out, he literally just had the clothes on his back. We bought new clothes for him, helped him sort his documents out, and helped him get established as a young adult. There were other parents in our friend circle who would have done the same.

I wish we had known about the FAFSA override sooner. That's definitely worth looking into.
This is such good advice!! Seriously setting things up so you can prove they aren’t in the picture will make an insane amount of difference. FAFSA is complicated but maybe a counselor at school or something could help you figure it out.
Her own birth certificate usually has her mother's maiden name on it (at least the "long form" version does). It also will show where she was born which could be a hint for where to start looking
Brilliant idea!
It can get relatively expensive to do this, particularly if she was born in another state. It varies a lot from state to state how much they charege. It also can be tricky to do as a minor.
Thank you. I needed to hear that today. My grandson says I'm the best grandma ever. I say it's because he's the best grandchild ever.
I'm sorry they couldn't help you more. You deserve more than this. Are you sure there is no way to track down your family? You can start with last names and locations, and do a lot of internet digging. You could find things like articles, profiles, or potentially old friends who know who they are. If you can find out your mother's maiden name, or where your parents grew up (as long as it's not a major urban area, but that just makes it harder; not impossible) you can start searching for things online to narrow it down. See if you can find old pictures around the house, they could be hidden away somewhere and contain photos of your relatives you can go off of. 

It would be hard and probably take months of research, but finding them isn't impossible and they may have more sympathy to help you than they did for your parents.
Man, by this point, I might have learned how to forge my parents’ signature. It says something lovely about your character that you aren’t.
Depending on where he lives, this could be simple to do. In my state, anyone can get a copy of a birth certificate, no proof of being related. All that is needed is name, date, city/county. Of course, not knowing their parents names might be a problem. If you are not able to go in person, some states allow you to order them on-line (have it sent to friend). Could do internet search of their (OP parents) names to see if any important information pops up. Put in their names in genealogy sites... maybe a family member has a family tree on there. Maybe submit DNA to one of these sites? If friends are willing to help, see about being emanated? This process could also bexa way to get more information about your extended family.

Additional suggestion:
Post in the legal advice section and ask for suggestions.
There really isn't. I don't know anything other than they were religious and not okay with my parents having me so young and not being married and that I heard from my parents friends. I don't know where they grew up or lived at the time or nothing. I'm also not sure it would be worth wasting my time with. They could feel differently about me but imagine I put all that hard work in and they don't? Then I wasted so much effort on them and I'm tired of doing that for people who don't want me or care about me.
AITA for telling my father “I do know about that”? 
I (F28) am a wildlife biologist. I have a master’s degree in Wildlife Conservation and am hoping to go for my doctorate soon. I have worked in this field since I was 16, and am very passionate about it.

When visiting my family recently for Easter, my mom asked me to tell the family a little bit about work. I was very excited to talk about my current research! Here’s where the issue comes in, though.

My father (M60) would respond to almost everything I said with “hmm, I don’t know about that…” At first, I tried to ignore it, but it just. Didn’t. Stop. Eventually, I responded “Well, I do, given the two degrees and all!” I responded in a light, playful tone, but he did not take it well at all. He immediately accused me of being disrespectful. I responded “I’m sorry, but it’s disrespectful of you to insinuate that you know more than I do about my field.”

Dinner got pretty quiet after that. I finished the meal, helped with the dishes, and said goodbye before leaving, but on the ride home I got a phone call from my mother asking me why I felt the need to aggravate my father and why I had to “talk back.” I am a 28 year old professional, this feels insane to me. AITA?

EDIT: My goodness, wow, that’s a lot of comments. I don’t have it in me to respond to all of them with life being so busy right now, but thank you!
Welcome to /r/AmITheAsshole. Please view our [voting guide here](https://www.reddit.com/r/AmItheAsshole/wiki/faq#wiki_what.2019s_with_these_acronyms.3F_what_do_they_mean.3F), and remember to use **only one** judgement in your comment.

OP has offered the following explanation for why they think they might be the asshole:

 > I may be the asshole because I was unable to ignore my father’s behavior, potentially ruining the night instead of choosing not to take it personally

Help keep the sub engaging!

#Don’t downvote assholes!

Do upvote interesting posts!

 [Click Here For Our Rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/AmItheAsshole/about/rules) and [Click Here For Our FAQ](https://www.reddit.com/r/AmItheAsshole/wiki/faq)

##Subreddit Announcements

Follow the link above to learn more

---

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose/?to=/r/AmItheAsshole) if you have any questions or concerns.*

*Contest mode is 1.5 hours long on this post.*
NTA.  At first you used a playful tone so you weren't confronting him in front of other people.  He was being disrespectful to you to start with.  

Is this a pattern with him?
NTA your dad is obviously uncomfortable with the idea of you being an authority, does he have any post grad education? Many older gen folks without education feel threatened by being perceived as ignorant so they posture as compensation.
Every. single. family dinner. My humungous family has an opinion on everything. The number of times they are flat out wrong about biology is stunning. 

I have had every possible reaction, anger, bemusement, deafness, irritation, debating. In the end whether I take the high road or the low road, I often feel like shit. Deafness or shrugging is usually my best defense against vague "I don't knows". 

I can explain it to you, but I can't understand it for you. (then give a cheeky wink)

I don't have the time or the crayons to explain this to you. (then laugh as if everyone is in on the joke)

Finally: Mark Twain: Never argue with stupid people. They will drag you down to their level and beat you with experience.

Good luck going forward.

NTA
NTA

>  I responded “I’m sorry, but it’s disrespectful of you to insinuate that you know more than I do about my field.”

*Fuckin' a.*
NTA at all! He needs to realize he's raised an intelligent and educated child who is capable of teaching him a thing or two, and that he doesn't know everything. I can't help but wonder how he'd respond if you had been his son instead of his daughter.
NTA.  You (or your parents or your grant committee) paid a freaking fortune for you to become an expert in a field.  You've worked hard and you're accomplishing something.  Your parents should be proud of you.  You should be proud of yourself.

If he says, "well, I don't know about that."  You should say, "No, reason why you should.  I've studied for more than ten years and I still haven't learned all about the mysteries of (fill in the blank here).  It's a fascinating study."

Your father sounds a little insecure about your superior knowledge.
Honestly your dad sounds rude but your mom was 100% wrong with the phone call. SHE instigated a conversation about it specifically because it's what you have studied, you weren't"aggravating" your father, he was insulting you by undermining your knowledge on something you LITERALLY HAVE DEGREES IN. And all you did was point that out. The audacity 😒 NTA op
Why do so many parents suck, and the other parent just enables the suck?

NTA.
A great reply might be, “Oh, no? Tell me more about why you don’t agree.” Let him talk himself into a corner or off a cliff. He’s not gonna know your field as well as you do, and he’ll make an ass of himself trying to appear that he does. There’s a famous quote that goes, “never interrupt your enemy when he’s making mistake.” Now, of course, he’s not your enemy but you get the idea.
NTA

You reminded me of a car game we used to play where we'd take turns naming animal species beginning with each letter of the alphabet. When someone couldn't think of one they lost the round and we'd move on to the next letter.

My dad would not let us use any species he hadn't personally heard of because he thought we were making them up. Nothing exists outside his personal sphere of awareness lol.
NTA 

Your father is an “armchair expert” by the sounds of it. Thinks he knows everything about everything. He obviously didn’t like it that you know more about XYZ than he does. 

The fact that you were playful, and didn’t mean your response to him as rude and obnoxious, goes in your favour here. If you had been condescending, my judgment would be that you’re a bit of an AH for your tone/phrasing; but that’s not the case. 

You have 2 degrees in the subject, and your father still thinks that he knows more than you. It seems to me that his nose has been put out of joint, and he’s embarrassed that you—albeit playfully—put him in his place. 

Your father is an AH for accusing you of being disrespectful to cover for his own embarrassment. He also sounds a tad misogynistic, like a woman cannot possibly know more than a man. Or that a child couldn’t know more than their parent. Seems like he still see you as a kid, rather than a 28 year old woman. 

Do you apologise to keep the peace? That’s up to you. I wouldn’t, but then if he refuses to talk to you unless you apologise, it could get uncomfortable for your mom. Although she sounds like she is in agreement with your dad, it could just be that she feels put on the spot having to choose sides. In an ideal world, she should have more of a backbone and be able to stand up for you when you are clearly in the right. But, as we all well know, this is far from an ideal world. Mom might be a bit of an AH for agreeing with him, but she could also be doing that because she has to live with your father, and doesn’t want any arguments with him. 

But I digress. The fact is that you were not an AH.

Edit: typo
NTA, here are some more comebacks to “I don’t know about that”

1. “It’s alright, I don’t expect you to! It’s pretty high level stuff in my field”
2. “Well good thing you’re not doing biology then! Don’t worry about it too much!”
3. “If something confuses you I would be more than happy to explain it! Biology can be really difficult, that’s why it took me x years to get where I did!”
obviously NTA  
I wanna say that I'm so proud of you not budging. It's surely not the first time, he did it and he hit you with the "I'm older and more experienced in that, so listen to me" am I right?

I also grew up with a dad, who thinks that anything other than agreeing with him is disrespect.  
It will get better and he has to live with a little hurt ego, because he looses his status of the "allmighty know it all".
It feels insane because it is insane.  Your dad is insecure and has a fragile ego.  You were always his child that he imparted knowledge on.  Now you are literally a scientist and with specialized knowledge that most people in the world do not have, but it's impossible for him to accept any world where his child knows more than him.  

NTA.
'I felt the need to aggravate my father and why I had to “talk back.” ' Um, because your father kept questioning your knowledge of the subject. If he didn't want to be called out on that then he shouldn't have done it. Frankly, he should have apologized for doing it. You said it in a playful tone, you did not yell at him or tell him to shut up. You did good; he didn't. NTA.
[deleted]
NTA. Clearly your father is an expert in everything. How dare you assume you might know something more than he does. So disrespectful! /s
lol lol lol parents mad you know a thing. Hilarious.
Perfect response to your dad. 10/10, no notes.

Ask your mother if she asked your dad why he felt the need to to interrupt and question your expertise.

NTA
NTA, I was about the same age as you when a switch flipped in my head that I didnt have to sit there and be agreeable with my parents when they were being assholes. Your situation seems familiar
NTA your dad is being a baby.
It is insane. NTA

Your father was basically demeaning everything you said. And you’re an adult!! Talking back is another way of saying boundary setting apparently.
My Mams and Stepfather are accredited Wildlife Biologists and they get this crap all the time from Googlologists.   The I don't know to non peer related info.
NTA. Ask mom why your dad felt the need to undermine and aggravate you.


 Mom asked you to tell about your work, but dad could accept that you know more than him about anything. He was rude, arrogant, condescending. Need I go on? 


Next time mom asks you to talk about your work, ask if dad will be rude again. Then just say " No thanks. Dad can't handle it ". And do not talk about it in front of dad.
NTA - Tell me he's a Trumper without telling me he's a Trumper.
NTA. First of all your father is a misogynist,  it accepting that he raised an intelligent, accomplished woman, having to put her down at every opportunity because his ego was threatened. Second, your mother jumped on you because she is used to capitulating to him, probably because she is used to him making her life hell when he doesn’t get his own way. 

Good for you for standing up to a father who felt the need to bully his own child to bolster his own ego. And your mother needs to start standing up for her child against this as opposed to always taking the easiest path.
I manage messaging for a company with 250k employees and 8 global data centers. If there was disagreement on a technical issue between me and my manager I would be the one who made the final technical decision. 

My mom does not trust my opinion on IT and will disagree about what actions to take or not take. It can be infuriating.
NTA. It’s endemic to some people - nobody is allowed to doubt them even when they doubt other people’s expertise. He’s sour that you know more about something that he does. 

I’m not saying he’s a narc, but it’s a narcissistic trait - you can have those and not be a diagnoseable narcissist - and your mother is scrabbling to keep the peace. I would tell her you have nothing to apologize for, thank you for dinner, “I love you”, and let them reach out. 

If they want to know more about your job or anything else, a breezy, “So it goes/It pays the bills/They’re doing great/I’m fine” will suffice. They may have to get used to knowing only what they need to know if anything deeper rustles his jimmies.
Your dad has the emotional maturity of a 11 year old. He wants to be the know-it-all. Pathetic.
NTA I will never understand parents or people in general who think they deserve some sort of subservient respect while they are actively being disrespectful! 🙄
Tbf he literally doesn't know about it. NTA
NTA.  Let me guess, your dad likes to mansplain and has some conservative/religious tendencies?  I.e. science is fake, unless it happens to be the 100% accurate prediction of an eclipse...
NTA

Don’t start none won’t be none!! 

Your father was trying to belittle you. If that was his intention or not it’s what he was doing. 

Tell your mother that you were not “talking back”.  You were an adult and a specialist; defending yourself against blatant disrespect. And they just because he is your father does not give him free charge to to try and make you look stupid in front of others. 

My dad used to argue with me and my brothers in our early 20s and I finally looked at him and asked if he raised idiots or he really couldn’t handle the fact we knew more about the subjects at hand and had to be an ass to feel big and bad.  He got angry but then deflated.  He stated he wasn’t used to knowing less than his “kids” and I pointed out we were now his “adults” and he had to stop thinking our brains were the size of peas.  We had more on our minds than playdoh and dolls.  

Tell your mom that it may seem disrespectful to them because they raised you.  But it was super disrespectful to you that they are undermining everything you’ve done since you were 16. And that you expect an apology before you will offer one. 

And you should offer an apology that is “I am sorry you feel this way as that wasn’t my intention. But I am not sorry for putting my foot down to make you realize I am the expert in this family on this subject.  I’ve worked too hard to be disregarded by the people who raised me to be what I am”.
NTA. Family dynamics make it so your parents are like this most of your life and have a hard time realizing you might be "smarter" or more knowledgeable than them. I'm sure your dad's ego is what was hurt the most, not his feelings towards you. Best thing is to talk to him directly next time telling him how he's being disrespectful to you and how you basically did the same thing he was doing to you. I'm sure he'll understand. And if he doesn't, then he'll have to get used to you standing up for yourself.
NTA - Why you had the need? becuse he was completely disrespecting you and all the effort you put in to your chosen field.  My parents are the same way :(  they think they are the absolute authority on everything even when they know nothing about it.
NTA and frankly it’s getting tiresome to hear and read about all these people who are rude to others then cry about people being “disrespectful” when they get called out on it.
“Talk back?”  You’re not 12! NTA
Some people don't want to hear your opinion.  That want to hear their opinion coming out of your mouth.
NTA. Put your father in his place. Nobody gets to mansplain your job to you especially not your father.
NTA. He was being disrespectful ask your mother why your father felt the need to do that.
NTA in your face DAD...you got those two degrees for a reason
NTA. You're an adult and your parents should respect and treat you as such.
NTA. Parents sometimes have difficulty seeing their children as adults. 

Years ago, I was visiting my family prior to an overseas business trip. My mother started lecturing me about calling the credit card company to let them know I’m traveling. I tried to interject with “thanks, mom. I know.” But she wouldn’t stop lecturing. I finally told her “it’s called a travel suppression algorithm. I know that because I just rewrote that algorithm for my bank. Please trust that this is one thing I actually know about.” She didn’t get mad, though, and we just had a laugh about it.
Nta. 

Ask him if he would say those words to his doctor, the plumber, or any other professional?  No?  Weird
NTA! My husband's dad was like this about computers and it really hit my hub's self esteem. Do not let your dad take your confidence from you. I'm proud of you for sticking up for yourself. Your mom is complicit in this, as well. Does your dad have an alcohol problem?
Wait, whut? I thought my dad died. Why do you and I have the same father?

Here are some things you can try:   
  
"Why did dad feel the need to aggravate me?"   
"Why are you and dad invested in dismissing my accomplishments?"   
"Why can't you and dad accept that I'm an authority?"  
"What, exactly, are the rules you want me to follow in the house?"

In other words, keep the issue on *their* behavior--not just your dad's, but your mom's as well. The last is the least confrontational, and your mom will try to deflect by saying "respect" but you can keep asking.

Sometimes men do this because they think that their better-educated children will no longer respect them, so they have to assert that they know more. If so, you can try, "I respect dad because \[X\], and I don't think it's disrespecting him to think he'd like to be informed about this issue." 

Toxic masculinity means that knowledge is a zero-sum competition. If you know more about an issue, then you're superior to him. So, you can try to take your knowledge about wildlife out of that competition by acknowledging his expertise in another area.

It took me till I was in my mid-30s for my father to take pride in my accomplishments rather than be threatened by them.
NTA He sounds like an insecure little man upset that a young woman knows better than he does and has multiple degrees and years of experience to prove it. Anyway, it sounds like you’re doing important work that’s a better use of your time than managing your father’s tantrum.
NTA  
and if your mother asks again just tell her what you told us here "Because i am a 28 year old adult with two degrees and an expert in my field. Or do you think it would be respectful of me to doubt whatever dad says when he talks about \[insert your dads work here\]. I will not apologize, however i will think about apologizing for the tone if dad decides to apologize for dads disrespect."
Good gosh NTA, like even a smidge. He sounds exhausting. I'm sure he's a great guy in other aspects, but yikes.
NTA but they don’t care that you’re right. You just have to decide what you’re willing to deal with bc you can’t make them act right. I’d tell them you’re an adult that gives respect to those who show it and they can get on board or go bye bye. But i completely understand if you’re not willing to go that far. I basically had to do that with my mother and set serious boundaries. Actually, both of my parents. But my mom and i still see each other bc she actually listened. To be fair to my dad, he’s a homeless addict with paranoid schizophrenia. Unless he gets help, I’ll never be around him.
NTA. No offense to your dad but male ego at its finest 
“I don’t know about that” 
“Of course not, no one would expect you to. Fortunately, with the opportunity I’ve had to get my education, I do”.
NTA your dad sounds annoying
NTA. I have a masters too and the number of times people tell me I don’t know about something is mind boggling. Like????
What does your father do for a living?
Some men have to be right even when they're wrong. I feel bad for OP's mother. NTA
Next time, ask him, "So you believe you raised a child that doesn't know their own field?"

I'm a big fan of turning it around on misogynistic dudes.

NTA, but if you want a peaceful relationship, you may have to compromise because men like this tend to tie their egos up in being right. 

That said, you are perfectly reasonable for wanting your parents to respect you as an adult and a professional. If you are comfortable making it uncomfortable for a while, set and keep boundaries until they get the hint that you won't accept disrespectful dialog from them.
NTA - yeah, you handled it the right way. Maybe we need more context about your father to paint a more complete picture.
She called because she has to live with your father. If he is dismissive to you, I can guarantee he is dismissive to her. Definitely NTA.
NTA. Many older men feel insecure around successful and knowledgeable women
Whenever someone says something like just repeat it in the form of agentle question.

"You don't know about what?"

Listen to their explanations or thought process.

When they've finished...
Set them straight.
NTA Quite obviously not. While he was clearly not respecting your extensive knowledge, after being asked by your mother to tell everyone about your work, your restraint was admirable. Respect goes both ways. It would seem that your father does not value your level of education and knowledge in your field or/and feels threatened by it. 
It takes parents a while to realize that their children sometimes know more than they do. Your mother was wrong to call you, your dad was wrong to disrespect you, but you were definitely not wrong to call him on it. He will (likely) get over it and will think twice before correcting you in future. Be a bit patient with them; reversing family roles is difficult. NTA
Oh man this sounds just like my father, my whole life! And he’s now 91 and I’m in my late 50’s, and he still does it every once in a while. It seems to be some sort of passive aggressive control/one up mechanism, and it’s subconsciously about keeping you off balance because you probably intimidate him. I would spend all this time trying to prove to him how I knew what I was talking about until I realized all he had to do (to win) was tell me that I was wrong, because it would rile me up. Once I told him to prove to me that he was right, it went away, but it slips back in every once in a while. I would be prepared for a long campaign of getting him to stop by not letting it get to you.
NTA. My dad also does this to me. He didn’t graduate high school and then went back and finished via correspondence. Sometimes I wanna be like “why did you insist I go to college to be smart, if you’re still going to think you know better than me about everything?”
NTA. Your family sounds like it has set family roles -- once a child, always a child. Which is less than the parent. You are an adult and are functioning fine without them (and are well educated!), and that might be threatening to their idea of family roles, where they are the best and the wisest.

Edit: grammar for clarity
Sounds like it’s time to get Dad an Alexa Silver. Google it.
NTA they still view you as a child, clearly. it is ridiculous. good luck to you and your research.
NTA. i don't understand parents who think that if their kids, at any age, disagree with them, it's 'disrespect'. if you go back, (and i wouldn't tbh) let him dig himself into a hole. ask him what proof he has, and why he thinks he knows better than you.
NTA, and your dad needs to, with all *due* respect, go fuck himself
Your dad is a dongweasel.  44 year old successful doctor here, dad does it to me too.  Best advice I’ve ever heard is would we respect their advice about the topic at hand?  No.  Then why would we care about their criticism.
NTA. I’m sure she didn’t ask him why HE felt the need to belittle your knowledge and expertise. Don’t apologize.

Next time he does it, ask him for his take on your field, and why he feels you might be in error. Get a bowl of popcorn, and watch him hum, and haw his way out of it.
NTA. Boomers can’t expect their disrespectful, rude comments to be met with respect. That’s not how it works.
You’re not responsible for your father’s feelings.  If he was aggravated by the truth, then so be it.
NTA 

Ask your mom why did your dad have to aggravate you and belittle you and your knowledge?

There is only so many insults a person can take. Parents should never do that to their children.
NTA.  Parents often have a hard time realizing that their offspring are grown ups, with grown up brains.  You probably bruised his ego a bit, but it sounds like that might be therapeutic for him in the long run.
NTA you literally do know 🤷‍♀️ He needs to learn how to shut up
Also- You have a KICKASS job!
NTA. Your dad (and mom) wants you to be subservient to him. That's not ok. It's toxic and dangerous.
Next time he says that turn it into a conversation. Ask him what he does know about it. Mention recent research which of course he’s familiar with. Because you can see he is well informed and interested drone on about the details. Ask him what he thinks about the controversy about why wolves have a more limited range of binocular vision than humans and yet have a wider field of view.
NTA.

"Mother, don't bother asking me about my work again unless you can accept that I know about my field of work and that your husband doesn't. Your husband thinks he's better and more knowledgeable than me about my field that I've studied for X years. If you can explain why his logic makes sense I'd appreciate it. Why does your husband think he knows more about my work than I do? Why is that okay? If he believes that is an appropriate way to talk to someone, then I believe it's only fair for me to talk to your husband as if I know more about things than he does. And guess what - I actually do. I expect respect from my own parents. I'm really disappointed you don't understand what's wrong here."

Hang up.

In future you know more about everything than everyone else (your parents). Your mother has an opinion. Or clothes, or a TV personality. Doesn't matter. She's wrong now.

Your dad has an opinion on anything from TV or movies to how someone should mow the lawn. Doesn't matter. He's wrong now.

You're more educated and apparently you don't have to know about the field to be more correct than someone else.
He was disrespecting you (insecure about your level of education and authority vs his) and only felt disrespected when you refused to sit there and take it like he expected. He feels entitled to dish it out, and also entitled to never having to hear criticism (or "back-talk") from those "below" him (because you're younger, a woman, his kid, or any combo of these, really). NTA.
NTA You could flat out ask him why he doesn’t believe you…
NTA. Your pop sounds like a Trumpy boomerball
NTA
NTA. Some people only think disrespect is something someone else does to them. They think they can't be disrespectful. You handled the situation very well. Your dad is a disrespectful armchair scientist and your mom is an enabler.
NTA and sorry, your dad sounds like a dick. Way to go after your passion and work so hard for what you love! Wildlife conservation is really cool, and I wish you all the best. I hope you get everything that you are working towards.
NTA. Dad needs to learn he doesn’t know better than you on the topic of everything just because he is older and/ or because he is a man.
This sounds EXACTLY like my Mother.  She was even competing with my grades in HS (as she was in college going for her Bachelor degree, then Masters).  It was pathetic.  Even now she can’t openly acknowledge anything I do for her (computerfixes, photography, et.al).  Have a nice time in the home I pick out for ya…..NTA!
Parents who view children as property are forever incapable of recognizing the genetically produced human's accomplishments much less demonstrating basic respect. This applies to your mom and double for your dad.
Nta
NTA. Does dad tell the a/c repair guy or his auto mechanic that he disagrees with their educated perspectives, as well?  Well, Christmas is easy. Get him Tom Nichols's book The Death of Expertise.
NTA. Good for you for standing up for yourself and your mom should’ve not called you to tell you that. You didn’t “aggravate” your father you simply told him, and in a playful matter, that you knew what you were talking about. He was being disrespectful by saying that when he has no experience on the field like you do. If anything your mom should’ve told him he was being aggravating.
NTA, parents forget that children grow up, sometimes get careers, and will inevitably know more about a subject than their parents. Sometimes I have to remind my own family that I know far more than they do about the subject of my career.
NTA in any sense of the word.
NTA

Daddy lacks respect for you and possibly doubts that you earned your degree by knowing stuff.
NTA. Neither of your parents see/respect you as an adult. I have felt that frustration myself.
Being old and a man doesn’t mean he deserves to treat people like that. I’m tired of people thinking that they deserve respect just for living a long time. You have worked HARD to gain all that knowledge, and I guarantee is you were a man, he would listen to you. I’m so tired of this kind of BS.
Old dogs have a hard time learning new tricks.
NTA, I'm impressed by your restraint.
NTA. Your Dad was being very rude.
NTA. But you might want to let this one go into the generational differences category. It reminds me of this SNL sketch, where the elders respond with "I don't know about that" regardless of what facts are presented before them.

[https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YvT\_gqs5ETk&list=PLrVwtbcdXoJzgpiz2lXp1yKZ4o1jghihN](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YvT_gqs5ETk&list=PLrVwtbcdXoJzgpiz2lXp1yKZ4o1jghihN)
Nta. He kept escalating the situation after you politely asked him to stop. Standing up for yourself for something that you are passionate about and genuinely understand while he doesn’t is not “talking back” in my opinion
NTA. Sounds like they’re boomers.
This reminds me of the men that think they could score a point in a match against Serena Williams. Her being a woman makes her less than... on the court.
NTA your fabulous achievements don’t have to hide because your dad has a fragile ego. Gaining knowledge is hard work. Don’t ever short-sell your accomplishments and be kind to yourself.
NTA

You didn’t “talk back”, your father disparaged your knowledge and career because? Because you’re younger? Because you’re a woman? Because he doesn’t agree with actual science? Who tf knows, but he was the one who behaved poorly and if he wants to have a true conversation on things he thinks he knows more about then he needs to provide the actual facts to back it up.
NTA- made family does it too on something that they nothing about. Good luck with getting respect without being called uppity
NTA. Respect goes both ways, regardless of parent / child relationships or age. It sounds like he needed put in his place, and your mom probably enables that behavior from him. How do I know? My family is the same! Haha. I work in the environmental field too, and my Dad is always telling me how or why I am wrong. And my mom is always trying to soothe his ego. I’m at the point where I ignore him, or just don’t talk about my work. I put him in his place when I was your age. Now I’m 49f years old and he’s 75 - it’s a lost cause but okay because I love the work I do.
NTA. Parents just like to say that any kind of conversation is talking back. It's insane.

And they can't fathom how anyone can know more than them.

My parents always would say that wifi doesn't work the way I say it does because they didn't understand what I said.
NTA I would tell mom I can either "talk back" to dad or not talk to him at all. Because the third much preferable option is dad shuts the fuck up, be we all know that's not gonna happen.
NTA! He was disrespectful to you, and he knew it and continued to do so.. You responded with a lot more tact than many of us would have..
Your father is acting like a child.  I’m sorry.  He should really be shouting your accomplishments to anyone and everyone.  

As a wife w two young men, I would definitely “fix” my SO’s thought process if our children accomplishments made him feel anything other than proud as heck!

Good on YOU!  This world needs you and your gifts.  

Now get out there and enjoy your best life!  (Sent with love and hugs)
Haha fragile masculinity and narcissism! I'm so familiar with it.  You're NTA 100%.
NTA Dad was being super disrespectful. He drew first blood, then he whined to your Mom. Dad needs to grow up.
NTA

This is typical boomer energy---they can dish it but can't take it. You are, and will always be, beneath him and 'dumber' because you are not only younger, but probably because of your gender. He's stuck in his self-centric world-view and your mother has been enabling him from the get-go. 

Don't waste your energy on his nonsense, but absolutely proceed to clap-back again if he continues with his malarkey.
NTA.

There is a HUGE difference between being disrespectful and standing up for yourself.
NTA, the absolute nerve of the older generation... My dad does the same thing. I play violin and this man, who doesn't even know in which hand the instrument goes, tries giving me advice using rugby metaphors when I'm genuinely doing fine. I never understood it. We always butt heads on this. You're fine, he'll get over it, maybe you'll have more luck than me and he'll stop commenting on your work.
Sounds like your father feels threatened by you knowing more than him, lol, how childish. Time for him to grow up
Me watching a surgeon perform brain surgery:
Hmm, idk about that. Are you sure that's correct?
NTA, but the next time your father tells you you’re being “disrespectful” you MUST respond with, “hmm, I don’t know about that…”
NTA. Your father’s a d!ck.
Hard NTA. I've had similar arguments with my family over vaccines. Why do so many people think they have a better grasp on biology or medicine than people who study it and work in the field? 

Side note: I think it's really cool that you're a wildlife biologist and that you work in conservation. I'm sure you already know this, but you're doing important work. In my opinion- some of the most important and undervalued work. Thank you for all that you do.
Your dad is insecure that his daughter is more knowledgable and accomplished than him in this field and your mother knows it which is why she’s teetering in the edge of “you shouldn’t speak to him like that, you know what he’s like”. NTA.
You are NOT TA. I know exactly what you are talking about. When you are talking about your field that you studied long and hard to earn your degree and someone, anyone, your dad included, starts in with what I see as smartassed criticisms, it is NOT you being disrespectful, it’s them being disrespectful. Just because he is your elder does not give him a free pass to pull that crap. I’m sorry. This pissed me off.
Wow.  Now I really understand what the phrase "OK, Boomer" means and how it should be used.

Thank you.

NTA.
NTA you handled that beautifully and i’m sorry your mom thinks you should dim your light just to make your father feel better about himself
NTA. I hate this shit. Good for you for standing up for yourself.
Maybe he just ‘didn’t know anything’ about what you were talking about… new information can cause that reaction.
NTA For Pity's Sake! Also you work in the coolest field.




>I am a 28 year old professional


this, quite frankly, should have been your response to your mother as well as telling her it is not your responsibility to tip toe around his delicate feelings. if he doesn't know how to behave at 60, well that, quite frankly, is not your problem. NTA
Unfortunately yes, which is why it’s so hard to “just ignore it” as my mother suggests
I’m guessing he moonlights as a bridge engineer and epidemiologist on Twitter
That's crazy, when you think about it. In my culture, older gen folks without education get so proud when their children have a higher education, they just want to tell anyone about it. *My daughter just got her PhD, first of her class, yes yes!* And of course there's no such thing as first of class, but they just need to inflate their children's successes even more.

Our older generation has sacrificed so much so that we can have a better future; so when we do, by going to university, they don't feel threatened, they're just proud. And if they don't understand what we do because they never had the education for it, it just makes them more happy. *Look at my children, they're so intelligent, they do very complex stuff!*

It's a shame when parents are so insecure, they can't even be proud of their children's accomplishments.
No, he doesn’t. You make a good point, that might be part of the reason he behaves this way!
In an argument my mother once accused me of feeling "high and mighty now you have a degree" by using "big words". The word in question was hypocrite 😂
Especially authoritarian fathers who cannot abide an uppity woman.
My mom has a degree and all that, and that woman would actively fight my brother and myself on stuff that was our fields. I major in Spanish and she would try to explain how grammar works and she would argue English pronunciation with my brother who is an English teacher. I was so fed up one day that I simply placed my diploma on the table while saying "I didn't get this from a cereal box". She was pissed.
The irony being it just deeper highlights ignorance. The saddest thing is ignorance is not even inherently a bad thing. We all can’t be experts in everything.
Is this wtf was wrong with my stepdad. He would question literally EVERYTHING I said. Made me feel like the stupidest person alive. I'm actually glad he's gone.
Even older folks WITH educations feel threatened. My dad is a very well educated man with a very respectable job. He is the smartest person I know. Since I have started studying law at a very good university, he feels threatened by me within the household. Sometimes during arguments he yells in my face that ‘just because you study law doesn’t mean you are smart, you don’t know shit and I am way smarter’. Or ‘I am gonna make sure you drop out of law school’. I feel like some parents get scared that they are gonna lose their authority.
It’s has nothing to do with education level, and everything to do with her being a woman younger than him that he has infantilized.  

I go through the same thing with my well educated brother of a similar age as OP’s dad.
So true.  I was the first person in my family to go to college, then I went on to law school. Shortly after graduation I went on a camping trip with some family. I did something stupid and afterwards said “I’m a lawyer!” Clearly poking fun at myself. My aunt got so pissed and immediately said “don’t you go throwing your degree around like you’re better than us! We’re not doing THAT around here!” It was…a lot.
Biologist/chemist, I was having dinner while on a work trip and somehow got roped into a talk with a husband and wife about why fluoride in drinking water is good. I explained why it’s a net good and one of them said “hmmm, I don’t know about that” just like OP

My response was “well, lucky for the both of us, I do”.
Men over 50 seem to have the ridiculous urge to be experts in everything no matter how qualified they are or not and it is infuriating.  


I was at a big family event and someone asked my opinion on something in my field and I put in my two cents and at every corner my FIL (who isn't in my field) kept arguing that I was wrong. Eventually I just had to ask him how many hundreds of similar projects he has done because I am over 200.
Don't argue with them. Instead, say, "Are you open to persuasion on this?" They'll say no, and then you can say, "Then let's not talk about it." If you want to make them mad, you can say something along the lines of, "If you aren't willing to look at the smartest opposition arguments, then you don't have a reasonable position." But, be aware, that's like throwing a glitter bomb into the family dinner.
I've gotten into so many fights with my mom and aunt in particular about science, particularly evolution and climate change, because they believe they know more than I do. I like "your Google search is not equal to my degrees" as a response though.

I have 4 degrees, 3 of them are science related. One is for biology and one is for environmental science. I do have more than a vague idea of what I'm talking about.

My sister has had the same problem, she works in higher Ed and our parents have both argued with her about things like admissions or housing (which is specifically the department she works in). No one is more sure of their expertise than someone who has none.
“I can explain it to you, but I can’t understand it for you.”

I made a sticker with that phrase a couple years ago and can’t believe how popular it is. 😆 Apparently way too many of us are in this position.
I like this!

I sometimes use "This is America, you're allowed to have a wrong opinion if you like."
I am an infection control nurse, let me tell you the number of times people tried to tell me "best practice" (which is either a wives tale, or out date) is far too many when I am trying to educate about actual current best practice.
You say, "I don't have the time or the crayons to explain this to you. (then laugh as if everyone is in on the joke)." That confirms their media framing of politics as libruls who look down on normal people. 

Asking if they've looked at opposition sources is more useful. If I'm really grumpy, I say, "So, you're fine if people believe things about you without listening to your side of the story?" (Or some version of that.) If they claim to be Christian, then you can say, "So you don't believe in doing unto others as you want done unto you?"
Kudos for the Twain quote. Absolutely on target.  Thanks for making my day.
Never wrestle with a pig. You’ll both get dirty but only the pig will like it.
A million percent. Sorry pops, but gone are the days women are going to pretend we don't know things
I'm going to borrow that quote in the future! That is perfection.
Perfect except for the "I'm sorry, but." OP isn't sorry and has nothing to apologize for. I feel like women have been conditioned to begin assertive statements with "I'm sorry, but..." to placate the recipient's reaction, as if we're responsible for their emotions. It's utter bullshit. We are not responsible for someone else's emotions. OP's dad's insecurities are his to deal with. They are not OP's responsibilities.
From the sound of this, I doubt he raised more than a beer and the remote control.
Son here, and it's the same for us minus the assurance of being daddy's girl. Boomer dad gonna boomer dad, especially if he feels threatened by another male. 


8 years NC, best 8 years ever. Thanks for teaching me how not to be, dad. I promise your grandkids will never be treated that way. 
I'd be pissed if my kids got out of college *not* knowing more than I do about their fields.
Exactly. Is OP supposed to say "I don't want to talk about my work. Let's talk about the weather" every time she visits?
I hate the expectation people can have that someone has to tolerate abuse or bullying by a family member just because everyone else tolerates it. It's ok to create boundaries and tell others that you find their behaviour unacceptable.

I know it's quite common in family dynamics, but mum shouldn't be involved in this conversation at all. If dad has a problem with the conversation that happened, he should be the one contacting OP like an adult and working things out/expressing his feelings.
This scenario sounds so much like my own parents that I have to wonder if OP’s mom was bullied into making that call.
Because reproducing is a biological event neither mitigated nor managed by a person's fitness to rear offspring.
Bloody good question. My father would swear black and blue he knew something - but was wrong, and would back it up with threats of violence or going the other way and saying you think I'm dumb. Then mother would say - you know your father - as if it's perfectly okay to agree with racism and stupidity,and blame us for 'winding him up',  then minimise his threats to others so I was to blame. she knows he's wrong but he's allowed to abuse us - cos he's the head of the household even when we're adults. Hence low contact and now he complains noone visits. 
NTA and good for you sticking up for yourself.
I wouldn’t do that. It sounds good and polite in theory, but my experience has shown that they are begggging for someone to ask them that. Then will respond with bullshit talking points from (insert favorite 24hr news or am radio show) and flood the zone with bullshit. You can’t possibly counter every point as fast as they can spit the bullshit. Somehow the burden of proof is not on them, but you. 

Sorry, had a “great” weekend visit from mom and dad a couple weeks back that I’m not recovered from.
I would be very tempted to respond to "well, I don't know about that..." with a "you're right, you don't" and just continue on.

Or point out that it's good of him to acknowledge the gaps in his understanding of the topic.
Omg yes. “That’s why I love science, there’s always the possibility for multiple perspectives on a topic. I’d love to hear more about yours.”
To quote the best statement ever made in a Presidential debate:

[“Please proceed, Governor.”](https://youtu.be/E-2Xe0bY86E?si=0sA_oE1R8NZa9-IR)

1:52 in.
"Nothing exists outside his personal sphere of awareness "

I've known some people like that (who hasn't?) but never been able to put it into words the way you did.
He’d really hate it these days when you can just google proof that your answer was correct.
Oh man. My dad went ballistic over a game we quietly made up in the back of the car. Our car had a 24 hour clock, so think 19:38, 19:39, etc. The game was for both of us kids to name one historical event from each year. If you couldn't think of one, you lost.

Guess who went into a fucking rage after listening in to our conversation, and yelled at us all to shut up because he couldn't 'understand' the game :'D
My dad is like this, and it is infuriating. I tell him to ‘Google it’ and see for himself. I offer to do it and he usually gets crabby and shuts me down.
So Many Old White Men.
The mom is being an ass too by telling a 28 year old not to be "disrespectful" by standing up for themselves.


Edit: oh you literally said that. Reading is hard.
The classic toxic triangle is set up for OP. Victim-Villain-Hero.
This validates my entire being. 28F myself and still get treated like a fucking child. I just don’t engage anymore and close out a conversation with “I don’t want to have this conversation.” And if he tries, I straight up walk out of the room. It’s sad but I’m setting the boundary
>Your father is an “armchair expert” by the sounds of it. Thinks he knows everything about everything. He obviously didn’t like it that you know more about XYZ than he does.

Sadly all too common with older men. They're subconsciously aware that their best years are behind them and aren't in their physical prime anymore, so over compensate with trying to be intellectually superior to everyone around them.

Frankly, her mother sounds like an enabler and needs to grow a backbone. I know the "loving, doting, unconditionally supportive wife" stereotype was common for the older generations, but that's not the world we're living in anymore and she needs to start sticking up for herself and her daughter.
That stinks. My dad was an AH as was a lot of men in my day. But one day I was working with a bunch of people in a forum on a computer programming project but didn't have a job doing that work. I got frustrated one night at the kitchen table and said to my dad what good is what I'm doing? I'm not making any money at it. He said something that stuck with me for year after: "You don't know, you may have wrote some code that would have saved some poor sop his job!" And he's right! He taught me to go for your dreams anyway and we may never know what good we do for others. :) This post for some reason brought back the more 'positive' memories of my dad. Maybe just avoid the topics that trigger your dad and talk about the things that don't trigger him. After all, you can't change your dad. He's a man. Men can be jerks. Not all of them but some can be. But as much of a jerk they are they can also be very good dads (as in the case of my dad). Concentrate on the good. Try to avoid and forgive/let go of the bad. One day he may be gone as we all go at some point and then you'll miss him. Hopefully not before you get to say "I love you" and regret you didn't have the chance.
4. "You're right, you *don't* know about that. It's ***my*** field, after all."
"Well, don't worry your pretty little head over it. They pay me to do that"
Fr it sounds like OP also has two degrees in Having a Backbone bc damn, she really did not waver!! I really love that for her and wish that ppl like her father got put in their place more often. To sit there and dismiss all the hard work your own child has done and then turn around and make yourself out to be the victim when they eventually snap is nuts lmao what a baby.
I think he is confusing respect and deference. Common (bully) mistake.
This is probably true.
bingo
Probably religious, biological science and evolution don’t go well with fundamentalist views of the Bible 
I'm surprised it took so long for someone to bring up the sexist aspect.  I'm not a woman, but I've witnessed this dynamic.
Huh. I knew my daughter was smarter than me before she graduated high school. And I knew she was *craftier* than me by the time she was 5.  Fortunately, there are still a few areas where I have more knowledge and experience so I still feel useful. But realizing she's way smarter overall just means I kicked ass at parenting. If your grown kids aren't smarter than you, what with their agile brains and the benefit of the wisdom you imparted, something went wrong.
I think you're optimistic in thinking that he wouldn't say this to a doctor given the last few years.
He’s retired, but he was in the military
Actually, don’t do that. It will be offensive. 

Is he the kind of person who always has to be the most knowledgeable about everything? If so, you can give him credit by saying ‘of course you already know this’ often. 

Or you can say that you don’t expect him to know about it. Fortunately you’ve been studying this field for many years so you do.  Actually, no, that’s pretty much what you already said. 

Nta
Sadly I've seen this type of father-daughter relationship before. Father "raises" a daughter who becomes a subject matter expert in her own right, is respected by her peers and listened to in professional setting. Yet in the familial setting the dynamics are like yours.
I feel like more grown children should not be afraid to tell their parent, look you can let spouse continue to treat you like crap, but I have outgrown that need for their approval. I deserve respect on my own Merit.
Do it back to him, but in ways that don't make any sense:

He says "It's raining" and it is clearly raining.
You say "I don't know about that", while looking out the window at said, pouring rain. Immediately walk away.

He says "I'm going to use the bathroom"
You: "I don't know about that".

He says "My knee is playing up again".
"I don't know about that". Walk away. For bonus points, limp away (exaggeratedly).

If he calls you on the phone, ask "Who is this?"
He says "It's your dad"
You: I don't know about that. Then hang up.

When he loses his mind, just tell him "Doesn't feel so good does it?". Walk away.

Or don't. I am an AH.
I'm a 63 year old mom/grandmother and my parents, especially my dad always seemed amazed as I climbed the corporate ladder.  It was maddening, so I feel your frustration.  Your dad is AH, not you.  I learned from this and my sons have never had a mother who questions or downgrades their knowledge or achievements to make myself feel better.  Your dad is threatened by your success.  Hopefully he gets his head out of his arse and learns to just appreciate the fact that you are smart and are doing great.
I was once asked "why would you defend yourself from your mother?" (verbal nothing physical).   I just replied "the right question is why should I *have* to defend myself from my mother?"
And probably your mother would like people to see you as the one causing trouble and behaving inappropriately, since the consequences of her admitting her partner is the problem are more significant for family dynamics.  

Eventually you may find that other family members show you some support - whether or not they stand up to him in front of you, you might hear stories of how they agreed with you on this one, or how they always thought he was rude, or whatever.   It's possible that once you've stood your ground once, you might find it easier next time - or you might choose not to include your father in the conversation if someone else asks you a question about your field of expertise.  

I'm sorry this is happening to you. I've seen it (and to some extent experienced something similar).  Good luck in grad school!
ignoring bullies makes them worse
Yes, my father was the same way with my BA and MA in Anthropology.  He, who never went past high school, knew more than me about the areas I studied. I had such a hard time ignoring his ignorant disagreements until I realized that it was his insecurities both about education and knowing less than a girl. Then it went to me feeling that his reactions were just pathetic.
I get this too. I've worked in telecommunications for 18 years, and for a few niche skills like process engineering and efficiency, Agile project management and several related roles, I'm an expert in my field. I lead corporate certification, and training, I speak at leadership forums and lead multimillion dollar projects.

And yet my dad who has never worked in the field, can barely use a computer or cell phone will regularly criticize my choices, even while celebrating a promotion or major milestone at work.

I feel for you from the bottom of my heart.
I think you’ve just recognised something about women’s place in your family.
I wonder if he has conditioned himself to say things like that in order to actually trigger you. I'm guessing there might be an element of that? NTA.  Please try your best to ignore this. If you're going to spend time with him. Don't even engage his questions and just talk past him. That might Make him even more aggravated, though. Your mom has also conditioned herself or been conditioned by him to accept this behavior and cover for him.
NTA. You stated a fact. If that fact "aggravates" your dad, it's his problem, not your mother's, and most certainly not yours. Your dad sounds childish. Your mom should get into the habit of allowing him to get over himself without turning his personal problems into everyone else's problems. I have 4 adult children. If my husband behaved that way, I'd gray rock his ass so quick.
Then your dad is an asshole

NTA and he deserved it a long time ago
Unfortunately it may never change.  My mother is in her mid 80s, I'm in my 50s. As they see it, being the parent, it's alright for them to disrespect you but not the other way round.

Regardless of how old you are, you are still the child in their eyes and will never know as much as them, nor are you allowed to set boundaries with them as you are the child. 

My oldest sibling (early 60s) also treats me the same as your father does to you, in my area of expertise, and I've been in that line of work for almost 25yrs.
Yeah her specific language screams “lifetime of marital abuse”. Sorry.
Good for you then for not ignoring it. Is it possible to go low or no contact with him and just go out for lunch with your mother maybe? Or do things outside of the house where you don't have to see him?
I ended up going no contact with my father, unfortunately. My last straw was when he declared that I had to "go through him" before I could tell my adult niece anything because he's the head of the household/family. I'm a 48 year old woman; I am absolutely not going to accept that kind of treatment under any circumstances.

This attitude of just let it go from your mom is pretty common in families raised to not rock the boat. I understand her conditioning, but you don't have to be beholden it. Unfortunately, those of us who choose not to be belittled and do rock the boat face consequences if we want to stay "on their good side". Good luck.
By a pattern, do you mean that you've repeatedly asked for your father to treat you with basic respect? Like, to the point that you've clearly communicated how you've felt about it and he's chosen to disregard that and do whatever he wants whenever he wants?
You could also respond to "I don't know about that" with something like "well, would you like to? It's a cool subject, and I know a lot about it." 

Or you could see if there's a respectful way to show him that what he's doing is challenging you. Something like "oh? What part doesn't seem right to you? I bet I can explain it."
My grandmother used to make little digs all the time. Anything to "knock me down a peg". Pissed me off to no end but my Mom just kept telling me to ignore it, let it slide...etc...

One Thanksgiving in my late 20s I got seconds on dessert and as I sat back down at the table she said "you really don't need that do you?" to which I asked "what do you mean?" her response "well you've put on some weight"

At which point I looked at my Mom, then back at Grandmom and said "I'm in a hell of a lot better shape than you are. Anything else you'd like to critique?"

Didn't have issues with her after that. She kept her opinions to herself going forward.
Your mom didn't tell him to "just ignore it". She phoned you instead. You're not a child anymore, and unless they start paying your rent and bills, "talking back" is not a thing. His opinion is not more important than yours. His age and life experience is not worth more than actual research. If he pushes them, expect push back and don't whine.
My parents do this to me. I have a masters, a  PhD, have been working in my field for 2 years and am nearing 40. They still don't think I know what I'm talking about because I'm "just too young." Trying to explain this is actually my area of study and I am pretty educated in the topic just gets me called "elitist." IME there's no winning. Learning to walk away and ignore it was the best form of self care (apart from when I lived a whole country and ocean away from them).
Tell your mom that you refuse to baby an adult man, and that it's not your fault he's so emotional.
Sounds like you’ve got a narcissist for a parent.  

There’s a great book called, “Why is it always about you?” It’s an old book, but it was written for children of narcissists, and it explains a lot of their behavior.  (It certainly doesn’t excuse it, but it identifies why it happens.)

In my case, I just ask them to talk about themselves—which they are happy to do for hours upon hours.  They will even tell me about the plots of TV shows they are watching before they ask me about what’s going on in my life.  ;-). 

My friends are my real family and they are interested in my well-being and subject matter expertise.  My family narcissist just wants people to like them—and think talking about themselves non-stop is the way to achieve that!
You’re a girl, and you’re young. There is no way you could be as knowledgeable as a man that’s lived 60 years. /s. 

I’m sorry. Your dad needs to grow up and realize your degree was earned, not bought. He’s whining like a baby because you called him out. I wonder if he’d be this way if you were a son?
"Just ignore it" will make the problem go bigger and bigger everytime you put itnunder the rug.

Respect must be earned, is not a given.
Next time she tries to "show you off" for her own vanity by asking you to talk about your job, tell her no thank you.    She'll ask why and that is when you say that you don't feel the need to be second guessed tonight, then move on and change the topic.
NTA but your dad is, holy shit. Your mom is just as culpable for enabling him and blaming YOU for the situation. That’s how assholes get to keep being assholes; no one calls them out on it. Bravo to you.
Your mother enables this bad behavior. You don't have to. Just stay strong.
Is it a "she's a girl so she can't possibly know anyone about science stuff" misogyny pattern, or a "she's just a dumb kid, so anything she says that doesn't live up with what I think I know must be wrong" asshole boomer parent pattern? 

Either way, NTA, but I suggest you sit down with your dad and tell him how much it bothers you when he contradicts what you are saying about YOUR FIELD OF EXPERTISE, and ask how he would feel if someone did the same thing to him every time he talked about HIS area of expertise. Tell him that as hard as you've worked and as much time and money as you've spent getting your education and working in the field, you ARE an expert, and just because he still sees you as a kid (or worse yet, "just a girl"), doesn't negate the fact that you are an adult and deserve to be treated with respect!
Congrats on all your degrees and success, you sound super cool! Sorry your dad sucks, most of ours do lol
I responded to someone on Twitter saying something about their daughter going to university and learning “some nonsense”. I said “so you’re saying her degrees aren’t as good as your nothing?”
Let me guess, he's uneducated and sensitive about it?
He conflates respect with deference.  Speaking to him like an adult is not a lack of respect, it's a lack of deference and you don't owe him deference no matter how much he thinks you do.  

My father and I have the same kind of conflict.  He once blew a fuse in front of my teenage children over an email I had sent him politely asking that he not text me at four o'clock in the morning (as a response to him doing just that because he thinks he's funny).  He went on for nearly an hour about how disrespectful it was.  

My kids wanted to see the email thinking I had cussed him or something because of the fuss he made, so I let them read it and they were let down by how boring it was and really confused over what he was so upset about.  I don't treat my kids like that.  The email was reasonable and polite, but I had had the audacity to talk to him like a fellow adult.  

My kids are all now grown and most of them are on their own.  My dad whines that nobody wants to call or visit him and can't seem to understand why that is.
Ugh, NTA, I have had the exact same situation as you. I'm a zoologist, my dad was a sexist pig who thought he knew better than anyone, especially women. This went double for anything about ecology (he was a climate change denier and couldn't care less about endangered species or the conservation of them).

Needless to say, holidays were always tense.
Personally my experience is that they like saying “oh my kid got such and such achievement” and knowing their child did well, however they don’t like the fact that their child could know more about something than them. 

In a lot of parents minds in general, they don’t like to realise their child is an actual person with their own knowledge instead of simply ‘their child’ so they like saying all the accomplishments and being glad they had more than them but not liking that they could know more than them.
It might be more political, i.e. the dad is conservative and OP's work in science doesn't fit the dad's political narrative. There's not much in wildlife conservation that fits into the modern right wing worldview. But hard to tell without examples of what the dad was contradicting.
Agh yeah that's what I love to see. I ended up pregnant my second semester of college and dropped out. The baby I was pregnant with is 20 now and in his second year of college. I couldn't be more proud, and I love hearing about things he's learning. He's a smart kid and I am so very proud of the things he's accomplishing.
My dad worked incredibly hard to put me and my sister through college— an opportunity he never had. In fact, he insisted I go to a university for a 4 year degree instead of a trade school. He cried when I got my degree. He boasts to people about my sister having 2 degrees. And yet, he still gets huffy when I “think” I know more about something than he does. 

So people just have a hard time letting go of being the authority when it comes to their kids.
Many of them wrap their identities around embracing anti- scientific ideas which are now mainstream Republican positions, such as climate change denial or anti-vaxism. It's harder to be proud of your children when they challenge your identity. It causes a lot of family friction.
Might start asking him...  "Well, if you don't know about it and you want to, would you like me to tell you more?"

Or if that's too nice, just straight ask each and every time, "Why don't you know about it, dad?".  Cuz sometimes people need to eat some shit sandwiches.  He seems pretty hungry too.  🥪
Following on from that, did your mother take a more stereotypically traditional gender role, e.g., homemaker, etc? 

I'm asking because he might be used to always being the "authority" on all topics, because that tends to be how Boomer relationships with traditional gender roles worked. If so, he is likely to keep pushing boundaries around respecting your job/knowledge until you directly discuss the situation and your boundaries (likely with potential consequences attached for him if he doesn't change). It's up to you to decide whether to keep ignoring the situation or stand your ground on this. 

NTA
Hi, knowing nothing about your cultural background, but following some other comments...

I have an elderly father who left school as early as he could. And he had four older brothers. In his life, age = wisdom, and education was not valued. 

Age brings experience, and that can feel like wisdom, but is limited to personal observations and trial and error. He doesn't understand all the processes that go into distilling  the experience and observations of thousands of people into the academic disciplines.
That’s EXACTLY why he is behaving this way. He feels insecure because of your higher ed degree and to make himself better he belittles it.

I have a PhD, and for some reason the above behavior is compounded by the fact I’m a woman, particularly if it’s a man my education is making uncomfortable. It’s like they feel doubly motivated to ‘put me in my place’.

If your mom did take on a more ‘traditional wife’ role, I could see this being an issue with your dad. Was he supportive of you going to grad school and you possibly going for your doctorate?
"what makes you say that?" is probably the best rebuttal without antagonizing him - if he gets defensive or tries deflecting then you can use your eagerness to get a phd as an excuse to force him to justify undermining your expertise or admit he is out of his depth on the topic.

also, NTA
Do you have any brothers, and if so does he behave this way with them as well? I wonder if his behavior has to do with the fact that you’re not only younger and more educated, but the fact that you’re a woman.
If you needed to up the rude just agree with him when he says it and reply "you are right. You don't know about it. I do."
My Dad gets like this when I’ve corrected him in the past, I have two degrees and he has none. He’s 63 and I really believe he feels threatened by the fact that I’m a woman with qualifications. He’s a misogynist, I’m not saying your dad is, but mine gets extremely aggravated and sooks like a child when it happens and I’ve never corrected him in an aggressive or even passive-aggressive way, it’s not worth stooping to his level. He just hates smart women.
Keep fighting the patriarchy you’re doing amazing.
Ooouf I have also been called out by a parent by using such “big words” and it just reeeeks of insecurity.
That is my absolute favorite ethics topic. I have my students write a 10-15 page paper on an ethics topic and the reason I love it, is that they don't usually have a passionate opinion before their research. This means they have to do the research first before forming an opinion. I have 40 topics to choose from and I always hope someone picks this one.
>Eventually I just had to ask him how many hundreds of similar projects he has done because I am over 200.

I LOVE that reply!  It really highlights the lack of support that other person has for their doubts.
I got into an argument with my dad about dog training and he claimed to be an expert on dog behavior never having raised his own dog. I shared something that our very experienced trainer told us about and he goes “well I’ve known thousands of dogs” and they’ve never done X. 

The conversation devolved into him trying to physically intimidate me because he was so angry that I would insinuate I knew more about something than him. It’s insane how triggered he gets on topics he literally doesn’t care about (he will literally never get a dog of his own) as soon as someone talks about a topic where they are more of an expert. Infuriating.
>Men over 50 seem to have the ridiculous urge to be experts in everything no matter how qualified they are or not

They don't even need to be over 50. A shocking percent of men think they could land a plane despite zero experience. Others think they could beat Serena Williams in a tennis match.

My personal favorite is the guy that tried to incorrectly argue the terms 'vulva' and 'vagina' to a female gynecologist. After being publicly humiliated, he went on to write a 20 page thesis on why he's right.
Yep, when COVID hit, my family was on the Fox News hype train and I would disagree with them and they'd say, "Well this doctor (the crazy one that they kept trotting out says...".  Eventually I told them that I guess they'll need to get their free medical advice from her since they trust her more than me, also a doctor.

I can't even count the number of times I had to argue against talking points that were just wrong.
My stepfather, who has never worked a single day in a job related to finance whatsoever, is convinced he knows more than me about corporate bankruptcy and restructuring, the field I’ve worked in for the past decade
20 bucks says that if OP were a man saying these things her dad wouldn’t be arguing or saying shit. Misogyny and boomers are like 2 peas in a pod haha.
See my dad is an anomaly.  He'll listen to my opinions and give me a nod if I'm right. BUT my brother's, nope. They are the OPs Dad. Then my Dad gets mad at me for arguing. And I tell him that I've worked hard for my education and will not let someone disrespect me like they'd.
A glitter bomb! Nice!
*your Google search is not equal to my degrees*

A now timeless classic! Although at this point I might accept Google. We might need an update, your tic tock dance is not equal to my degrees.
Can I steal "No one is more sure of their expertise than someone who has none"?
When they don't like evolution, I like to ask them (later) about their favorite dog breed's history.  It generally seems they understand evolution perfectly well.
Stickers! What a great idea!
This was infuriating a few years back especially. I used to run the occupational health department but I linked closely with infection control, supporting their work and sat on their committee so I knew the basics....but my friends who knew nothing about working in Healthcare would argue about everything
Eh, just stick an onion under your bed and strap a potato to your foot, that'll cure anything that ails ya
Next up: *Nobody thought your racist "jokes" were funny, even when they had to politely laugh along.*
He’s being oppressed!

/s
I wouldn't have tried to say it in a joking way first either. My dad is a negger, and my mom would be really insulting. I used to ignore mean comments and it never improved. Now that I'm an adult and we're on equal footing, I confront them directly, and ask them what the intention or reasoning behind comments are. They got really angry or avoided me at first but now our relationship and communication is so much better.
Bless you for this I needed the laugh
I mean, you certainly can. 

Then whenever they ask why you don't talk about work anymore, you trot out the times when they have disrespected your achievements.
Yeah. I have no idea how you'd go about vetting people for parenthood, that's a giant honkin' slimy can of worms, but goddamn so many kids deserve so much better.
I like this one, I usually say something like " unfortunately, the only prerequisite to becoming a parent is functioning genitalia."
Yeah, good point. I wasn’t thinking about the Gish gallup that know-it-alls like to do.
It's not good and polite, and it's not meant to be. It's meant to be a full to get them to shut the fuck up and stop being an asshole. This doesn't sound like the nutjob political type convo. If it was, you'd have a point, but this is wildlife biology. I really don't think they'll have bullshit talking points lined up, because it's not a topic that comes up in the ~~talk shows~~ propaganda they inhale.
The best advice my dad ever gave me (that I now use against him) is "never argue with an idiot, they'll drag you down to their level and beat you with experience".
If you know your stuff then you totally can! Gotta be quick too. Source: I have convinced stubborn people of things before using the method described in the first comment. The key is you have to give them evidence that they’re wrong without actually saying they’re wrong. Like you can only ask them back to back questions that trivialize their points. You can’t tell them because they will wall up and do what you expect, be stubborn.

Edit: you’re totally right about how they would respond to being asked why they think that.
I love this response, "you're right, you don't". It is succinct and acknowledges their comment, leaving it open for them to scramble for a comeback, which there really isn't one.
These types think they know more than experts on google. These are the types who think Trump is a Christian, the world is flat and you can stare into a solar eclipse without going blind. Their egos are so fragile that they can't handle when the truth disagrees with their made up nonsense.
"where did you learn that? The Internet? Look it up in a book ....

 I read this post on Facebook..."
Amazing game idea though
It’s after 1am here, so reading, writing, and making sense is all hard lol 😂
Agreed, although I do wonder what kind of BS mom had to deal with after OP left. Doesn't make it ok, I just feel sorry for her.
Exactly this. My maternal grandfather was exactly that type of man. I cut him out of my life over half my life ago. He’s not worth my time for a lot of reasons. I was merely glad my grandmother had the backbone to divorce the jerk before I was born. 

Sadly, acting morally superior is not limited to the older generations. But it is a relic of times gone by, and should be left in the past where it belongs.
5. “Clearly”
Totally not surprised to hear he was ex-military. Had met more low-EQ military personnel than normal or high-EQ ones.
That's so depressing. My daughter already knows more than I ever will about marine life and she's in high school. I'm so impressed and proud I could split. How do these dads totally fail to rejoice in their kid's awesomeness?
Not just a father-daughter thing. My father is a physicist, I worked for him (start-up) as a mechanical engineer. Did he ever trust my decisions and suggestions in my subject matter? Nope.

Eventually company grew and a manager was hired between us, once my suggestions went through someone else he was willing to listen to, everything became much simpler.

(I'm his son, seems to be a universal parent-child thing)
This is my mom. It was when she was right about your Dads age I finally snapped, as she was doing the same thing regarding animal care. I’m a Vet Tech of 15 years. But it’s not just that.  It’s cooking, it’s volunteer work etc. , even judging me for leaving an abusive Ex husband.  I couldn’t take it anymore. I’m not saying this is the answer but I finally removed her from my life and it’s been glorious. I wish you the very best. Never underestimate your achievements.  I think for some reason they are jealous 🤷‍♀️🤷‍♀️☹️
Yes. I work in a little known field, quite essential, but it is also something I've tried to explain to my father about for nine years now - but he still talks down to me about it, is patronising and tells me that I think I'm better than other people. I've given up on caring if he gives a damn about me.
I was a teacher, I had gone to the University of Mexico and worked in an office in Madrid, but when I went back home I had to wear my little baby shoes again, but they wouldn’t fit any more. They kept trying to cram me back into those little baby shoes.
Ugh yes. I remember the first break I came home from college and my dad incorrectly used some word. Not even being a smartass, I said “oh do you mean (insert whatever correct word here?” Cue diatribe about how I think I can come back from college with my college attitude using my big college words. It was basic vocabulary that most people had probably known since middle school. He really pulled a “whatdyou think you’re better than me?”
Man if I had read this comment in my early 20’s. Incredibly well said.
Every time my hubs and I visit my mother, she'll ask him to help fix the computer, forgetting that I work in tech and I'm the expert 

Oh ok
Agreed. As a grown adult, why should OP "show respect" to someone who is actively disrespecting them. These are times when it's important to set firm and assertive boundaries. Show them that you're not a child and shouldn't be treated as one. It's so aggravating the power parents try to maintain on their grown kids.
Yes - this is exactly why the environment is such a degrading mess- because old farts won’t believe or even listen to science. Very disrespectful and bone  headed  ignorance.
Outgrown the need for their approval, damn that is so good. I am using this as explanation for the next person I talk to about why my mother and I are not close. 

>Or don't. I am an AH.


The passive-agressiveness made me laugh. Are you, by chance, from the Midwest?
Or, just act concerned that he’s so confused all of a sudden and “doesn’t know” what’s going on.  You just told him and he “doesnt know?”  Hmm, dad must be getting old.

Or, play full into the fact that he’s right, he doesn’t know about it because he didn’t study it and you did so you can just say more and more about all the things he conveniently doesn’t know about!  Just completely gloss over what he really means and take it as “I didn’t know that, tell me more”…bet after a few times he’d get so super flustered and aggravated that his put down is having zero effect and is misconstrued as positive.
Yeah, but you are a good asshole...

As in you don't take any shit.

I suppose/assume it's easier for people like us, though, because obviously, we have been raised with respect. It must be hard to be so accustomed to taking that when you are literally the expert in the field and that's the response your own parent is giving you. 

It's actually really sad how arrogant some people are.
You aren’t an AH. You are far more respectful than I would be.
Dad: I'm having a heart attack. Call 911!

Her: Hmm...I don't know about that.
You may be an AH but you're also hilarious. Love this ridiculous answer.
My sense of pettiness and justice have been activated
I love this approach so much!!!
This! I have a similar father, likes to try to engage in conversations that he knows will end in arguments. I no longer engage, just say, “you know we have differing opinions on this topic, I’m not discussing it.”It’s so freeing, and empowering. After years of his nonsense I choose to no longer deal with it. He hates it! 😅
Youre pretty great. I’d love to watch this. We should make a new term, “BCOA” (best kind of asshole) and crown you  🙌👑
This. Or next time Mom asks about your work, say, “Let’s ask Dad, since he knows more than I do.”
Righteousness and AH-ness are not mutually exclusively ideas my friend.
Please for the love of god do this!!!! It works so flawlessly!!! I am also an ah
I like you so much, you are awesome!
I love it!
Or just confirm that he does indeed not know about that.

old man: "I don't know about that"

op: "Correct"
oooo I upvoted this as hard as I could
Or her mother does know on some level that her husband is the problem, but she’s a classic “don’t rock the boat” type. I.e. don’t provoke the person who will be unpleasant. 

It doesn’t have to be a full-blown abuse situation for a spouse to become an appeaser to the one in the partnership who is more likely to make things unpleasant. 

But you’re right, because the upshot is someone who blames everyone else for poking the bear, rather than blaming her husband for acting like an asshole.
Agreed. I hate the typical "Ignore them, if they don't get a rise out of you they'll give up" advice. Nah man, they'll just escalate.
Agreed. Every bully I've given a bloody nose has stopped being a bully.  

Sample size of one, but still...
Yes, instead use their predictability to grease them into a wall.
IMO it’s an insecurity thing. A lot of men from that generation have to be seen as “the lord and master, Supreme Authority” of their family. If one of their kids (though much more often with female instead of male children) is an expert about something they don’t really know, their sense of superiority is challenged.
From what I’ve seen/heard about the educated/professional adult women I’ve worked with and their uncles and dads, it’s a “this little girl can’t know more than me about any particular topic except maybe diets and shampoo brands.”
Even if this is the first time that the OP is telling her father he's behaving badly, I think it's still relevant to note that the pattern of disrespect started a while ago.  She deserved respect even before she was demanding it, and her father was putting her down.
That is my experience as well.  They are very proud of their kids' accomplishments, but they don't want to feel dumb at their own dinner table.
Which fits the mom accusing a grown woman who's nearly 30 of "talking back" as if she were still a kid. I unfortunately know how the "look nice and don't make a fuss" treatment feels all too well.
> they don’t like the fact that their child could know more about something than them.

Especially if their child is a woman.
Worked for my dad. I have an accounting degree, but he would not listen to a single suggestion. Unsurprisingly, the business spent 8 years spinning its wheels and eventually failing.
This is it exactly. So proud to tell everyone about my academic achievements. But one of my parents will also tend to treat me like an idiot in some circumstances. I believe it comes from feeling threatened, in terms of their authority/overall knowledge.
My fil regularly calls his very well informed son ‚a boy‘ when they discuss politics. Like any idea that is not aligned with his father‘s could only be because he‘s inexperienced and ignorant of the world. My husband is 42. it’s infuriating.
I love teaching my kids new things, but when they first started demonstrating knowledge that didn't come from me it was a bit of a strange experience. This happened when they were about 4 years old, I can't imagine having a child in their 20s and not realising that they were their own person with knowledge that I don't have.
My parents LOVE to ask my brother, sister and I about our fields. They're super curious and if someone mentions anything related to something we studied, they will instantly come to us and ask what we think and will completely defend what we said.
I love em lol
This is almost certainly the problem. I work in conservation and have the same argument with my dad every month when I visit them.
Ayup. My sister and I have both gone into environmental work and our mom spends at least one morning a week sending us stuff about how climate change isn't real.  She'll be the first to tell anyone that I went to law school, and my sister went to a prestigious university, but that's as far as the pride goes.  Any more questions and she starts in on "those liberal communist hippies professors indoctrinated them in the woke socialist agenda" blah blah ginger.
I had to scroll too far down to find this comment - that was the first thing I thought when reading that.
I had similar thoughts. I aasume OP was talking about evolution, climate change, human threats to animals, etc?
That's what I was worried about.
Yup, I have a PhD in microbiology and work in pharma, my dad is falling down the conspiracy rabbit hole so he thinks he knows more than me on vaccines, pharmaceuticals etc.
Yep. One tactic is to Ignore. The other is to Engage with full energy. This can give the Speaker the opportunity to show that,  in fact, the Querent *does not actually know a damn thing*.

It can take energy,  but can be very satisfying, at least, and can help illuminate what kind of jackassery the Speaker is dealing with. Is the Querent just conditioned to respond this way to appear knowledgeable? To simply participate in the conversation? Or to call the Speaker's authority into question?
This is my favorite tactic when someone is being disrespectful like that. Ask them to expand/explain what they mean. Give him enough rope to really show how little he knows about the subject and hopefully he'll be embarrassed enough to just listen next time.
Physically intimidate? WTF, that has to be corrected.
My brother thinks a team of his pretty average friends (all 15) could beat the England women’s football team because… “they’re really bad at football and [he] saw them be tackled by six year olds on YouTube”.

I asked whether he thought they were going easy on the kids and he said nobody would do that because it would ruin their reputation.
>My personal favorite is the guy that tried to incorrectly argue the terms 'vulva' and 'vagina' to a female gynecologist. After being publicly humiliated, he went on to write a 20 page thesis on why he's right.

Do you have a link to anything about this? lol
I could definitely land a plane with no experience!  If Microsoft flight simulator taught me anything I can definitely land a plane; the number of pieces on the ground varies wildly per each attempt 😂
It’s amazing honestly… Fox News has done to a lot of our parents exactly what they said video games would do to us.
When I ask my Dr advice I drive him crazy by saying "Hey, I'm doing my own research...which leads to me asking a Dr I trust whats up"
Oh, these were staff nurses I'm referring to.
My comment (above this one) made me realize why I never spoke about university or work/career when I visited my parents. They didn't tell me they doubted things I said but their eyes would glaze over. My father would sigh loudly because he didn't know anything about my course of study nor was he interested in hearing about it. I had to keep topics light and just talk about my new car tires or listen to stories about my mother's rose garden.


If I asked about my father's work, he wouldn't say anything because he is a man of few words. So all conversations were held by my mother. About her roses.
I had to jump through hoops to prove I was capable of taking care of a dog to adopt one.

Mfers out there with 0 sense having and raising children on a whim.
You both had good points though.
That wasn’t to shit on you…. I have just had lots of recency of experience with this personality type. Your way is the nicer way and more earnest.
You'd be surprised... (Also a wildlife biologist)
Do you think people can't come up with opinions about bears, or whether wolves should be reintroduced to national parks, or whether rare newts or wider roads are more important, or whether it matters if all the insects have disappeared?
Idk, OP says that they have a degree in Wildlife Conservation. If their research goes into human impacts or climate change, etc, I can think of all sorts of stubborn talking points the dad might cling to.
Really? Climate change. The role of wolves being introduced to their natural habitats. How modern power systems effects ecosystems. (Windmills and birds for example) Fuck if birds are real us an actual thing. The whole gay frog thing.
Take my upvote. That is the most passive aggressive come back and it’s brilliant.
[deleted]
Have you tried being a narcissistic misogynist?  I hear that helps when you want to be condescending to your subject matter expert daughter.
>How do these dads totally fail to rejoice in their kid's awesomeness?

The minute I realized my offspring knew more about statistics than I did, I shouted with joy because it meant I no longer had to think back 35 years to my stat classes so I could help with homework.  

I don't know about that, but I'm damn sure they do!
Insecurity. 

My daughter is fucking awesome! I've got to shut up about her. 

Can you imagine being Mae Jemison's parent talking down to her?

I saw a photo of my girl in a flight suit. I cried. Always wanted her to be an astronaut. I think what she chose was better.
You are a great Dad
It is. There are a lot of parents who refuse to acknowledge that their children are even adults much less that they can even be accomplished and intelligent. It's such a bizarre and messed up way to behave. Especially in cases like yours and op's where you're talking about adult children who are well educated.
Some parents can’t accept that their children are no longer 5 years old. Even when said children are well into adulthood.
So you… don’t know about that 

(I had to get in on the bit lol I’m so sorry that’s something you experienced(
>seems to be a universal parent-child thing

I agree. My inlaws do this all the time to my husband (and also to me) But a few examples. My husband has several hobbies that revolve around computers, and he has built several computers, and  programed a (short and simple, but functioning) game. His dad is often dismissive of anything my husband says about computers, and likes to 'correct' him with entirely wrong info. Such as telling my husband that someone could "hack" the tablet our kid was playing on, and do something to her through it, even though wifi  and all other wireless connectivity was turned off. Or saying that  it's best to have a slow modem "because you use less internet that way and they can't charge you as much" (No we do not have a metered connection, it's monthly no matter how much or how little data) he also says we should unplug the modem when not using it "to keep it safe"

Also, my husband is a medical lab tech. When doctors say they are sending something to the lab, it's people like my husband who do whatever tests need to be done. My MIL often gives my husband bad medical advice. I mean really, really bad advice. And she gets upset when he doesn't follow that advice. Worse when he tries to explain what's wrong with her advice to

"Drink lots of diet soda instead, it will help you lose weight! It says "diet" right on it!" (said while he was drinking water)

Or telling us that  children *need* to eat candy, because they need the energy. But also saying our (at the time two year old) should only be given fat free milk "So she won't grow up fat!"

And she got quite upset when he told her that my doctor told me to eat more salt, and she insisted it was impossible because "There's no such thing as sodium being too low!" (That whole conversation started because my husband suggested I get some pretzels for a snack. And MIL butted in and said I should only eat unsalted ones, and he tried to explain that I honestly needed the extra salt as it was a hot day and I had been sweating.)
I mean, your father actually had credentials though. He was a physicist. OP’s dad has no relevant credentials to be denying her. That’s where the whole misogyny thing falls into play: he’s so used to his word having the authority over a certain demographic that he doesn’t care his uninformed opinion is irrelevant against that of an educated professional (who happens to be a female, the demographic he’s used to his word having authority over). 

You also experienced authoritative power play, but OP being a female is why she experienced it from someone who had NO business to do so. Because he’s likely a narcissistic misogynist.
Happy eating a slice of cake but waking up early in the night about cringe moments, regretting poor life choices that actually were the best options you had st that time, and wishing you were younger day!
Happy Cake Day 🎂 🥮 🍥 🥞 🧁 🍰 🎂 🥮
Happy Cake Day
Happy Cake Day!
But he is a man...    /s
It is a common thing that parents/family don't respect their own kids expertise in their field.  I was told a story where one of the top lawyers in his city was at a family dinner and his aunt brought up a legal issue she was having.  He gave his advice.  His aunt responded with, "I'll ask a real lawyer."  Someone later told the aunt that her nephew was the lawyer that any other lawyer she spoke with would call to get an opinion on the situation, since he was the expert.
I feel mildly attacked now.
is pettiness a theme in the midwest
I'd say they might be from the south but this isn't backhanded enough to be. Needs more "bless your heart" in it
I am and would respond the same way.
Is that where my appreciation for the passive-aggressive art-form started?
Lol, I own a shirt that says "keep Minnesota passive aggressive. Or don't. It's really up to you"
Is this a thing?? My mom and grandma are so passive aggressive, both from Midwest. I was born and raised in the south I'm the complete opposite of that.
The Midwest? I don’t know about that. 
Underrated comment.
Nope, UK 🤣
OPE!
With that level of passive aggressive, I would say definitely England.
“Are you sure you’re OK, Dad?”
I love the idea about asking him for more information!
I do this when people make sexist/racist comments or ask rude questions. Ie: when my friend said that women were the cause of workplace drama and men worked together peacefully. I spent 15 minutes discussing the history of women not being allowed to fight with words, fists or anything other than small passive aggressive moments. He never made a comment like that again. I over explain why it’s not okay or acceptable to the level of detail that I can see their eyes glazing over. When I can tell I’ve bored them to the point of them not listening I stop. Do this every time and the behavior gets better surprisingly quickly.
I was thinking along the same lines. Dad 'doesn't know about that." Play along. "Ok Dad, What do you think about it, counter with scientific knowledge, point to observable proof, basically prove him wrong and make him look the fool all on his own. Later in private ask him why he feels the need to constantly undermine you.
"mum, I'm worried about dad. He seems confused about literally everything. Should we be thinking about a home nurse, or a sitter to look after him whilst we're out etc?"
Hmmm. I don't know about that. LOL.
Sometimes being the AH is necessary.
I just snorted Pepsi through my nose in the canteen at work, and it's all your fault. 🤣
I don't know about that.
My father is exactly like the OP's in the story and I can promise you narcissist's like that have plenty of other ways to turn it back around you if you try something like that. 

For example, if it was my dad and I said "hmm I don't know about that" after he had been saying it, he'd immediately go on the defensive and act like I'm having emotional problems or can't have a civil conversation since everyone is easily going to recognize what I'm doing. 

It's a lose-lose situation. People like that are awful and the mom is only calling OP to ask why she's doing that because of years of verbal abuse to the point where it's just easier to let him act like he knows everything. She knows it's the best way to avoid fights and there's no changing her husband/OP's dad.
I feel this so much. When my father was diagnosed with cancer and insisted on not sharing utensils with him because “the cancer could be contagious” (he wanted a separate bowl and etc placed aside for his use only); I stared him in the face and told him he really shouldn’t be telling me this nonsense because I’m literally a doctor. Spoiler alert: he still insisted because apparently I don’t know anything and my MD is superfluous. Though, you really don’t need to be a doctor to know that cancer isn’t contagious unless you’re a Tasmanian Devil or something… 

He still, to this day, never asks my advice on anything health related. He literally goes out of his way to NOT ask me. He’s had multiple spinal MRIs and I’ve offered to review them for him (I am a neuroradiologist, so I literally read those on a regular basis, professionally) but he doesn’t care. I’ve learned to just accept it.
It's very much the insecurity thing. My dad is very similar to OP's.

My husband is a tech guy. Works in it, is constantly watching videos about it, doing research, etc... some of that has rubbed off on me. Enough to recognize tech BS when I see/hear it. 

My dad said he bought a thing that reduces EMF and boosts other something or whatsit and wanted to send one to us. I tell him "thanks, but could you send me the name of it so my hubby could look it up" (to make sure it wasn't a scammy hunk of junk like it sounded to be) and "make sure it will work with the home systems we have in place" to save him the shipping costs. Didn't call him out on being duped into buying multiple of the same junk product, didn't say no thanks, didn't tell him just becauss Elon allegedly referenced it doesn't mean it's actually worth anything, just asked for the name of it.

The blowup was not even remotely proportional. Yelling, gaslighting, "This is the last time I try to help you out," "Just accept the gift," more yelling....

I've got a few friends with dads like that, too. Don't even try to imply they're not all knowing. They'll rip you an undeserved new one.
Could be an insecurity or that he perversely enjoying pushing your buttons.   Only you would know which.  I’ve seen both.
Yes, insecurity. My husband and his sister both attained terminal degrees in their fields; their dad finished high school and worked a trade all his career. My FIL has all kinds of wonderful qualities, but there are times when he feels his role as The Authority of the family is displaced by his super-smart kids, especially my husband. My husband will share an opinion or a cool thing from his own work and FIL will sort of giggle dismissively, look askance, and say "I don't knowwww." 

It is deeply irritating and hard to ignore. We've tried to address it by asking "What's funny, Dad?" or "What don't you know?" and though this strategy can temporarily halt him, it'll start up again the following day.
So, misogyny 

The answer to this whole thread, the one thing that binds all these theories together; misogyny
I bet even cosmetic chemists who formulate shampoos and dietitians still get mansplained by male relatives. Imagine being a dietitian and having a "carnivore diet" relative argue with you.
And mine. Bragging rights only.
Yes this!!! Get a good job and a degree so I can brag about you to others but don’t make me feel stupid in my own household!
Yep. Spoken about like he’s the proudest parent. Spoken to like I’m a disagreeable teen.
Ugh, I hate that phrase! 'Don't talk back' always meant 'don't defend yourself' when I was a kid!
Yeah, dad's likely been being fed a line of really simple solutions to incredibly complex problems for quite some time. Add a dash of "young people can't lecture me" and you get this.
Idk with some of those people, she could have been talking about surveying subspecies of bees and he would jump down her throat about how bee conservationists want to enslave children for their human hives or some shit. It's a tactic of identity politics to politicize the most mundane topics so all avenues of communication between different kinds of people breaks down
Agreed - that sounds like essentially the same tactic as the "please explain" question when someone says or asks something inappropriate - make them explain *why* they said what they said, and elaborate.  It shuts most people up, and the ones that do go on generally just like to keep digging.
Yep. Ignore doesn’t work for this type of parent. Or for the adult kid either, really. I’m an advocate of going in with both barrels.
As the saying goes… can’t teach an old dog new tricks lol
[Guy Mansplains Vagina to Female Gynecologist](https://www.businessinsider.com/mansplain-vulva-gynecologist-twitter-2019-3)

I'm sure there's better articles on it, but this one links to the original Twitter debacle. He even tries to correct how the term "mansplain" is used. Mold has more self-awareness than him.
I'm really sorry to hear that. Sending hugs, if you're open to them. 

Having surface-level conversations hardly ever results in a deepening relationship. 

It's a shame that some people are unable to make any effort to show interest in their child's hobbies, opinions, achievements etc. To me it's bizarre.
We have a brigade of people wanting the bats that are currently living in a park in our town due to habitat loss due to bushfires/drought and the fact that our local council bulldozed some to build more homes to be "relocated" ASAP by any means possible. 

The bats are listed as a vulnerable species, and are a keystone species crucial for the pollination and seed dispersal of native vegetation. And those facts are disputed by the anti-bat brigade.... so, yes, Cardabella, you are sadly right.
Great point - I have zero education in your field and have opinions on 2 of those topics. 

I'm the inquisitive type (and love nature), so you'd probably get more questions than anything from me. But I can totally see someone spouting buttfacts and misremembered anecdotes from social media to look good.
Maybe Dad belongs to the "so what if it kills wildlife, it's business" school of thought.
Wow , that's so upsetting I'm sorry about that. Sounds like you have amazing kids
Awww that hurts my heart!  I’ll be a surrogate grandma to her!  My 9 y/o grandson is the same way - and I love encouraging him.  The only thing that makes me go a bit glassy eyed is when he’s on hour 2 talking about Minecraft .  😂
That makes me so sad for her! My 9 y/o nephew loves facts and knowledge and for years we’ve known to go to him when we have any questions about space/trains/science!
Offended that a 9 year olds more intelligent than them... Sounds like they need to grow the hell up then
That's heart breaking. I know what you mean about deep diving. Our friends' kids are on the spectrum. The son does the deep dive thing. Also I sometimes hyper focus on a topic since I have ADHD. (Although it takes me a lot longer to absorb info and usually don't become an expert exactly lol)

Hopefully she has lots of other people like you who are so proud of her! 

Anyway, yay userdoesnotexist22's daughter! 🎊🎉 😁😁
That is so sad. I'm a professional with a uni degree, but my son has exceeded me in every way; better degree from a top tier university, better job etc. And I couldn't be prouder.
It's an abuse tactic to reduce people to the version of themselves that the abuser had the most power over.
Well, myself and everyone else got to laugh at him for thinking putting an aluminum plate over a 900+F burner would spread the heat out nicely. 

He melted a hole through it, aluminum melts at a fairly low temperature for metals. Told him he needed to put a steel plate underneath to spread the heat some and support it.

Not at the start up, he wanted to DIY a pizza oven.
I didn’t even notice! Thank you! 🍰
Instructions unclear, slapping penis on electronics; no results.
I often wonder if this sort of behaviour is just bitterness at their own kids acheiving? 

I always get into a debate with my mum who lives on reminding  us how much harder and horrible things were in her day... yet also saying a lot of that shit should be brought back? 
So like, instead of being glad that things have progressed and people aren't having a shit time... wants the entire world to suffer like her generation did. 😂 same sort of reasoning a lot of parents disrespect their kid's fields of expertise perhaps? Low key bitterness and jealousy.
I don’t know about that
Same
Midwestly attacked
Ope
More like the regional language than a theme
It's more about passive-aggressiveness pettiness, not like pettiness that's-in-your-face pettiness.
Yes. Where I’m from it’s called, “Minnesota nice”

Regionally we are very passive aggressive.
Hahaha. I will admit to being pro. My husband is in charge of keeping the kid’s play room clean. When I’m mad, I buy the kids glitter. I too, am an AH.
I would say more rooted in sarcasm and passive aggression based on the heavy hand of religion, racism, alcoholism, and sexual repression. At least here in Indiana.
Yes, its also a font.
Also relentlessness. Something like this could last for years.
You know how it's "Minnesota Nice" it's actually "Minnesota Ice" ice you out with passive-aggression...  You're not the bad guy if you passive-agress someone so much they just ghost you.
Pettiness and passive aggressiveness are somewhat of a midwest way of life.  I would compare it to the overly polite, but insult you to your face south, or the helping you change a tire while calling you an idiot New York area.
The Midwest Passive-aggressiveness is more of a dismissive type. Backhanded compliments and everything is neutral. We can't go too far into the positive or negative.
Tack on a “hon” “sugar” or “darlin” for some southern flavor🤣
I don't know about that.
It's what we're known for. "Minnesota Nice" is sometimes called "Minnesota Ice".
Welp, that's your opinion, I guess.
“Yes, why?”

“I don’t know about that.”
Yes! Yes! Why dad? Why do you doubt that dad? What do you know?
This sadly is 1000% correct. No matter how you represent your case it will be null and void. I’m truly sorry you had to deal with that bs.
Yes, this is so accurate. My dad is exactly like this. I'm the least favorite child because I don't put up with their abusive guilt tripping bullshit but it's literally always "my fault" because I'm argumentative, unpleasant, disrespectful...etc
Avoiding fights and keeping the peace are highly overrated
I’m currently dealing with a coworker who was doing this to me and I told him he was being insulting by ignoring what I was telling him. he later told me that made him uncomfortable. 🙃
It doesn’t mean you shouldn’t do it. You can stay calm while they melt the fuck down accusing you of doing exactly the thing they’re doing because it’s impossible for them to understand all people aren’t using the desperate asshole justifying his ego brain OS. 

It’s a long game. You can make them paint themselves into a corner, and the narcissistic injury might create some freaking out you have to witness in the short term but it will eat away at them forever, which is EXACTLY what they deserve. And they lose their power the older they get. Soon he will pose no credible threat to OP or anyone. 

Op, I’m sorry your dad treats you this way. As someone with a dad just like this who is older than you are: he’s not just giving you a hard time or just being him, he’ll get worse, and if you care what he thinks of you PLEASE DO NOT
Yup
My stepdad was like this and I flat out told my mom I wasn’t going to just agree with him like she does. I also told her I couldn’t spend time around him for my own mental health. That she and I could go out together without him or I might not see her much. It really did damage our relationship, but it was the choice she made.
Idk if that’s what it is, but some parents never actually “get” that their kids are grown and might have thoughts/feelings/knowledge of their own. It’s SO frustrating, and feels very invalidating.
That has to be so infuriating. 

As wrong as he was about cancer being contagious, it is kind of sweet that in his mind he was trying to protect everyone else from getting sick too. Hopefully that was coming from a place of love and not just being contrarian.
Hey, absolutely no sarcasm here:  check you, a neuroradiologist! that's so fricking cool! I hope someone in your life is bursting with pride at your achievements!
lol yeah mine was absolutely like this too until I went no contact. 

“This is the last time I try to help you out!” Yeah ok cool! That would be fantastic, thanks.
Mine as well. My mother would brag about my accomplishments; heck, she would even make some up. And then she'd tell me, when we were alone, "I wish you were dumb."
So fucking happy it's not just me! My dad was over the moon when I went to school, but I still can't do anything like HE can!!

My parents dropped out of 8 th grade for anyone wondering. They got threatened by my ability to do basic geometry and trigonometry 🙄🙄 "You'll never need that!" Bitch I'm in a class that has those two as requirements! I will LITERALLY be using it this semester, then never again in my entire life because fuck that shit 😅
And bats eat bugs! Why would anyone wanna get rid of our flying bug eating mammal bros?
Minecraft is a great game. If you were to play it too, you could have so much fun with the kid! And he'd be so proud of having the coolest grandma ever. Look into it!
[deleted]
I’m sure that felt nice! I don’t have an experience quite like that, but I did get to laugh at my dad looking stupid when I was making jewelry and he snatched my pliers and work out of my hands and went, “you’re doing that wrong. You need to use your dominan— oh. Right. You’re left handed. That’s why it looks backward” lol so I sort of know the vibes
Died laughing, ty.
I snorted.
It 100% is. Even my own mother acknowledged that my dad felt threatened by my brother and I being smarter than him. They absolutely just resent their kids being higher achieving.
Well done.
First OP, you're not the AH your dad is. In my line of work I hate it when someone asks me a question and then argues about the answer. Your father is ignorant, or insecure, or both.

But I'm replying to this comment in particular, I've had a terrible day and you brought me a great laugh. 

Thank you!
HMMM. I dont know about that.
When I finally have a position where I can afford to buy stranger’s gold, they won’t let me. 

Drop me a line next time you’re in nyc and I’ll buy you a beer
I represent that
Midwesterner.  Can confirm.
That explains a lot. I was born in the Midwest and moved to the south as a child. I have this strangely gracious, polite extreme pettiness.
Lol yup. I was born and raised in the Midwest, now have been on the east coast for over a decade. I just went to the Midwest for a visit (I literally just got back earlier today) and wow, the difference is even starker than I remember. The passive aggression is strong out there 😅
I resemble that remark.
I'm your neighbor, North Dakota nice. My husband's comment on the term (he's from Florida btw) was "but they're not really that nice though???" 😂
You know about "Minnesota nice?"

Well, ain't that something. I bet you know all about a lot of things.
Yeah.....no.
I like to answer with , “well aren’t you special “ lol
Yeah why won't you just sit there and take the abuse?!
I hear you.
I've thought that plenty of times. Thousands of times. It always ends the same.
That's because to them, kids are property
"This is the last time I try to help you out!" Ohhh noooo, that's the OPPOSITE of what I wanted to happen!

He never did send me the name of the thing or the thing itself.

We have a relatively okay relationship, got worse when they went full floridian (and specifically, 2020), and I've had to put him in "time out" for a couple months at a time when shit like that happens. But we do chat a few times a month.

Like, just answer the phone when I call and let's never talk about politics, kthanxbyeeeee
Omg lol that’s funny and horrible
It’s simple. The same reason people kill snakes and spiders: they look mean. I had two bats that lived in a dead tree next to my house and I loved those little guys. They’d fly around at night and madly eat every bug they could find. They’d hang upside down by my porch light and feast. I was sad when I moved.
[deleted]
Omg yes! I played with my kid many times. We ended up setting up a permanent server for her and two friends (friends of the family). We had some really fun times! It really is fun for all ages.
I think it's a problem with society and education in general, that being mistaken is seen as a failure. So parents need to assert that they know more, and people aren't willing to acknowledge when they don't know things, or defer to others who know more.
I couldn’t believe no one else had said that yet. Usually by the time I think of it there’s already a chain of about 50 of the same replies
>In my line of work I hate it when someone asks me a question and then argues about the answer. 

OMG, I TOTALLY feel you!  Among my family and friends, I am the computer fix-it person.   Android/Apple problem-I'm called, Desktop/Laptop problem-I'm called.  But dammit, when I am giving you the solution to get your device up and going, STOP F'KING questioning my methods.  If you are asking to learn, I don't have a problem with questions but when you ask questions that seem to insinuate that I'm doing something wrong or telling you something wrong the STOP F'KING calling me.  This is one of my Pet Peeves.
I say there's one acceptable condition. If the reason you're arguing with me is that you flat DONT understand how something is possible, and make that very clear, I'm more than willing to chill the argument and actually break down how or why something happens. As an Engine Builder I get it a LOT. 

"How could my piston rings be bad, YOU just rebuilt this motor!"

"Sir, you didn't follow the proper break-in proced...."

"That's bullshit! This is a 2009 Corvette, why the Hell should I have had to do any breaking in a damn thing?!?!"

Cue the deep breath and exhale

"Ahem. Sir, the break-in procedure is to allow the piston rings to seat properly against the bores of the block. Without the chance to gently wear in to the proper shape, extra RPMs and hard acceleration can only build more heat and cause this damage thats showing up as lots of fine metal in your oil and bad blow-by. The engine isn't ruined, it shouldn't need anything more than a hone job and new piston rings. But you have to stick to that break-in cycle with high performance ring packs." 

That was basically 10 years of my life, prior to COVID eating my Business and Dreams. Sometimes, they argue because what you're telling them does seem a bit fucking ridiculous. I mean, if OP was explaining to Dad that we now know Hippos closest living relative is the Whale, with no additional information or context as to how you got THERE, it's gonna be a big bite to swallow for some folks. Especially without some background information. But from the overall sound of things, OPs Dad is a jackass.
Oh yes. Ask me for help because you’re not sure what to do at work, then argue with me about it. Always the same person. I’ve started to just shrug and go back to my desk.
My Mom used to say “I resemble that remark!” She was a JustYes, funny and I miss her.
Midwest transplant. I don't know about that.
Welp….*slaps knee.*
Yesssss, or even more likely, midwesterner with a “Greatest Generation” father, who gave his kids “everything”, and is now unhappy with the way they turned out. Happy, well educated, open minded/liberal, and in a field he doesn’t like or understand. Speaking from very hard experience here.  I wish you all the best - for me it has been a life long struggle.  Good luck 🍀
You would be perfectly at home here in the UK!
Illinois and Ohio raised, now in the Pacific NW. My colleagues turn to me anytime they need a pointed response but with plausible deniability that it wasn’t actually rude*. One coworker calls it “weaponizing my White lady-ness” but it’s really my deep Midwestern training. 

*Only when it’s deserved
When I was a kid I genuinely thought it meant that everyone was just super polite and kind 😂

Ah to see the world through the eyes of a child. Such a grand and intoxicating innocence.
No yeah
You're never going to "win," no. They're never going to change, no. But as long as they live, they are going to make you miserable anyways. If you are going to subject yourself to them at all--which I would personally advise against, but know not everyone is willing to take that advice--it's a waste not to make them miserable in return. And the most consistent way to make a narcissist miserable is to simply not play along. There's no karmic retribution awaiting them on the other side; the only Hell they will know is whatever is made for them in life.
Men have always viewed women and girls as property lol
My son taught me to play Minecraft years ago and it's been such a great way to connect with my students. Also I have played Pokemon Go since it came out and I love to impress my first graders with my collection!
I don't know about that?
Mmmhmmm. Im an accountant that specialises in international taxes. I spend my days learning about the tax laws in the countries in which my company operates and then investigating which loopholes we can exploit to minimise the taxes due. So when im in a meeting about the taxes of a specific country, i can guarantee that i have triple checked the rates and exemptions before i walked into the room. Then a CEO, who has had zero dealings with that country prior to this meeting, asks are you sure its 20%? I just want to poke his two eyes out. Other than walking out, i just have to ask him to send me his research and i will investigate it. Of course, that research never arrives
Sarcasm is also strong. LOL
Watch out for deer
Bless your heart
"**There are times when you must speak, not because you are going to change the other person, but because if you don't speak, they have changed you.**" -Maud.
I didn’t know you didn’t know about that?
Ope, let me just not know about that
I was born in Montana (where my dad was born and raised) but my parents and I moved to Wisconsin (where my mom was born and raised) when I was about eighteen months old. I've never made the connection between my sarcastic nature and my natural inclination to petty behavior and being raised in the Midwest! It explains so much now that I think about it.
this i can agree with… as a midwesterner
AITA for naming my son the name I had always planned even after my brother and sister in-law "stole" the name?
My brother and his wife has as much right to name their child whatever they want. I do not own my name. I have no right to dictate to my brother what he names his kid. 

With that in mind my husband's has a traditional family name that I love. Basically since he and I were dating and started discussing our future we agreed that our son would have that name. 

Oisín

My husband is Irish. Not in the Boston, my great great great grandfather came over in the 1800s kind of way. In the born in Galway kind of way. 

Neither my family or my sister in-law have any other connection to Ireland. 

She got pregnant right around when I did and her son was born two months before ours. 

They named my nephew Oisín Miguel. 

I did get upset or anything. 

When my son was born we named him Oisín Daniel. Like I had told her we would be doing. 

She has flipped out that two cousins will have the same name. She is nuts because our family is Hispanic and half of our cousins are named Carlos or Camilla. 

She is trying to insist we call him by his middle name or change his name. I told her to piss off. 

My mom is staying neutral but she was very surprised that my brother gave his son an Irish name he knew I was planning on using. She expected him to name him for our late father. 

Anyways my husband's family thinks the whole thing is hilarious, my family thinks my sister in-law is a weirdo and she thinks I'm an asshole for copying her.  

Whatever. I'm posting here and sending her the link so she can see outside opinions. 
#This is now a Proctologists Only Orifice

When a post is in [POO™ mode](https://www.reddit.com/r/AmItheAsshole/comments/168bzq8/title_aita_monthly_open_forum_september_2023) only users with enough subreddit comment karma are able to comment. If that doesn't include you, no worries! Check out [/new](https://www.reddit.com/r/AmItheAsshole/new) for other posts that are still open for comment. 

##[Be Civil.](https://www.reddit.com/r/AmItheAsshole/about/rules)

Please review our FAQ if you're unsure what that means. Thank you for reporting content that you believe violates our rules and helping keep posts out of the POO by abiding by our rules.
Short answer: NTA 

Long answer: She thought she was going to own the name by claiming it first, even though her reasoning for the name was that *you* didn't own it. So she can either call her son Miguel, or put on her big-girl pants and live with the fact that cousins have the same name. It's been known to happen.
Your husband's family is right. So is your family. She doesn't own the name, and, if she's going to pretend that Moses had a third tablet saying that people own names, then she's admitting she was completely in the wrong to give her child a name she knew you wanted to use for yours. She sounds childish and petty. NTA, she is.
NTA. You're right, anyone can use a name.

That means even after she used a name that meant nothing to her, but so much to you and your hubby, it's still OK to use that name.

Tell the sis she can piss off. You didn't get mad when she took the name you planned on using. 

My family is similar... We had four John's, two Rick's who were cousins around the same age, and most women have some variation of the name Anne.
NTA that you didn't play the role your SIL planned. You were supposed to be really angry and choose a different name for your child.

Husband's family is right: it's hilarious!. She's now stuck her child with a name that has no real meaning for her,, and her attempt at drama has been ignored. Naturally, she's angry. It's traditional for the foiled villain to be angry.

And no, you didn't copy her. You simply went ahead with what you had always openly planned. She's the one who decided to copy.
NTA. She FAFO’d by using the name you wanted, expecting you to have to change yours. I love that you didn’t let it faze you, and named your child as intended. 

She’ll continue to flip out, and you can just continue to repeat “You knew what we were going to name our child. You chose to use the same name, so you knew this in advance. Your decision is not my problem.”
Sounds like someone in the family likes to manufacture drama. 

  
NTA
Lmao, I'm with your in-laws, this is hilarious. Of course NTA. You've been very clear and upfront about the name you chose for your son. And since you come from a family where plenty of cousins share the same name, you aren't bothered by it. Which is great! I'm very happy that you got to name your son exactly what you've been planning to.

SIL thought that you'd cave and pick something else to avoid cousin sameness. Well boo hoo, too bad for her. If she is so bothered that her son shares a name with yours, SHE can use her kid's middle name.

You keep doing you, OP, and be happy with little Oisín. Miguel will live. xD
NTA and I'm totally with the in-laws. Imagine the conversation the kids are going to have about their names when they're older.

Your child: I'm named after multiple grandparents/great-grandparents/uncles/family members with significant cultural and family ties.  

Cousin: I'm apparently named after you even though I was born 2 months earlier because my mom's a psycho drama queen. Want to grab some cake?
[removed]
NTA.. but since I'm petty I'd like to point out if your brother didn't think it beyond odd that his wife wanted to name their son after a name from her SIL's husband's family? 

It feels like she's jealous of OP? Is OP's marriage, life, and husband just better in her mind? Would she rather be with her BIL than her own husband? Does she idolize her BIL for his 'Irishness'? Did she do this because she felt like OP 'stole her moment' by being pregnant at the same time? If so, she is beyond an insecure and disrespectful AH.
NTA - as you've said, no one has the rights to a name, but honestly if your SIL knew you were going to do this, it's \*her\* fault that she chose the same name and chose to get upset about it. Also if she thinks you're the first family that's going to have cousins of the same name, an entire generation of Amandas, Jennifers, Michaels, and Patricks from the late 80s / early 90s has news for her...
Didn’t your husband post a while ago asking if it was weird that your sister couldn’t pronounce your husband’s Irish name and found it weird that she named her son after him even though she refused to learn how to properly pronounce the name?
>Oisín Miguel

With a Latin last name. Well, it's not a tragedeigh, cause it at least sound okay together, but that kid was always going to get so much crap if he uses his first name... Cause he's NOT IRISH, not even a little bit! They will try with your kid, he will say, "My dad is from Ireland, it's a family name" and noone will say a thing. But his cousin... they will tear the mickey out of him.

NTA. And has your sister in law always been in competition with you?
NTA.


I'm assuming if you're all Latin / Irish, you're Catholics.


The number of people in Catholic families who have the same name - it's a thing, and not worth blowing up about.


Don't worry about it, even if your SIL starts calling your son Daniel, just ignore her. If you don't bring the drama, she'll only be digging her own grave with the wider family. She can have her feelings but if it was obvious you were going to use the name, she can't play surprised.


As someone living in Ireland, Oisin is a common name.
NTA. Your SIL will just look insane in any company, since your son has an Irish father, and makes sense with the name, while hers has no connection to Ireland.
"Copying her" I nearly spit my drink I laughed so hard! How can you copy someone when you gave them the idea and flat out said that you were going to use said idea? 


It's really sweet of her to make sure your mom doesn't have to struggle to remember the names of her grandsons! LMAO


NTA
As always I cite Cake Boss. A bunch of Marys and Buddys everywhere.  Cousins can have the same name.  I think it cost $500 in the U.S. to change a name.  If you have an issue,  you can change.
NTA, but I feel like I have read this same exact story with the same name before
To the SIL: get therapy. Explore with your therapist your motivations behind choosing this name, give yourself some time to process, and then ideally share some apologies with your husband’s family.
NTA

In case SIL is reading this:

Grow up.
NTA but you sil is. Good on you. Also I love the name middle and all. Your sil is deranged or something 


ETA is your brother ok?
1. She knew that you planned to use that name. 2. Cousins frequently share names in families. 3. If she didn't want her son to share a name with his future cousin, she should have chosen a different name. 4. Your husband's family is right - it is hilarious. 5. NTA
Lol I remember you. You posted here previously about telling her that if she was going to name her son a traditional Irish name, she should at least learn how to pronounce it (as she has always mispronounced your husband's name - calling him Ocean). Just tell her their names are not the same, because she's proven she'll never get the pronunciation right, so her son will be Ocean while yours is Oisin.
Your sister is a weirdo
Nta ha, nope! You did exactly what you said you would do.
Welcome to /r/AmITheAsshole. Please view our [voting guide here](https://www.reddit.com/r/AmItheAsshole/wiki/faq#wiki_what.2019s_with_these_acronyms.3F_what_do_they_mean.3F), and remember to use **only one** judgement in your comment.

OP has offered the following explanation for why they think they might be the asshole:

 > My sister in-law used a name I told her I was using to name her son. I might be the asshole for using the same name since I always planned on it.

Help keep the sub engaging!

#Don’t downvote assholes!

Do upvote interesting posts!

 [Click Here For Our Rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/AmItheAsshole/about/rules) and [Click Here For Our FAQ](https://www.reddit.com/r/AmItheAsshole/wiki/faq)

##Subreddit Announcements

Follow the link above to learn more

---

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose/?to=/r/AmItheAsshole) if you have any questions or concerns.*

*Contest mode is 1.5 hours long on this post.*
Using a very Irish family name of someone else’s family (referring to your husband and in laws) when you are a Hispanic family with traditionally Hispanic family names and there was an expectation of a specific family name to be used was blatantly done to piss you off. Like, flat out done on purpose. Absolutely NTA and I applaud you for still naming your kid as planned. Fucking beautiful.
NTA.  I have 2 cousins with the same name no big deal no one cares.
NTA. It isn’t the end of the world and if it was that important to her she would have had an original thought of her own instead of trying some weird power play to stop you from using a name you love.
This is so weird, I read a similar post, with the same name, weeks ago.

I guess that is a common Irish name.

At any rate, the SIL is coo-coo. Laugh on
NTA
NTA Your shitty, weirdly competitive SIL overplayed her hand. And now she has a kid who is going to be razzed for having a name that's specific to a race/nationality he has no connection to.
NTA.  Since neither one of you have the right to the name you get to both use it.  Also going first in this case is not how it works.  Your SIL is weird and seem like to like the wrong kind of attention.
Wasn’t this posted a while ago and the emphasis was on the fact that Brother/SIL couldn’t even pronounce the name correctly? 

Either way NTA
NTA. I have a name that's typically socketed with Russia without any connection to that country. My parents just liked Russian literature. So most of my life I've been asked if I was Russian.

OPs kid and her nephew will have the same issue, and only one of them has a good answer to that question.
Really, another of these posts. 

I swear I read this exact post (minus the names) several times a day.

New account, first (and only) post.  I call FAKE.
NTA

I can't see what all the fuss is over family members having the same name. 

There are a couple of instances in my family. If there might be confusion you simply add the surname, or something else to make it clear.
Man i know i heard another reddit story with this name in it and some drama over it just a few weeks ago. Coincidence. Though NTA
Have you posted this before or is the name Oisín rising in popularity? I definitely read another post about in-laws naming their kid Oisín and then pronouncing it wrong.
NTA. Families figure this sort of thing all the time, and yours will too. She's just mad that she got called out.
My take on all of these name wars it that no one can own a name.  It is personal to the people who choose it and the fact that someone else took it, stole, it, used it, or whatever, has no bearing on what name you choose.  Sorry, this isn't hard.  NTA! No one owns a name.
NTA, I'm glad everyone is on your side when it comes to the name.
It's a bit ridiculous they've called him an Irish name when they have absolutely no heritage. Did they just like the name?
She can rant all she wants if she think you will change your mind.
NTA
 
It is normal in my family for multiple cousins to have the same name.  She shouldn’t have been surprised that you did what you said you’d do.
Hey George Foreman named all his kids some variation of George or something so there's that. What's in a name. We all usually get called 100 different nicknames besides our names anyway. If I call my daughter her given name she looks around to see who I'm talking to because we've used different terms of endearment so often. 
NTA
I just read this post a few months, if not weeks ago.
Didn’t I read this story before? 

Some other person posted about using the name Oisin but their SIL wouldn’t pronounce it correctly. 

I swear I’m not crazy lol
If the SIL doesn’t come to this thread to pitch a fit I’ll be disappointed.   I’m here for drama and this popcorn won’t last forever. 
NTA.
I love that you stayed calm, named your son then told her to piss off …you’re on step closer to your Irish passport …next step tell her to feck off. NTA and welcome to the world Oisín
Im glad you stuck with your name. That’s what she gets for stealing it! NTA
>she thinks I'm an asshole for copying her. 

You mean going with the name that she already knew you were going to use? She copied you lol
OP...you and your husband are handling this perfectly. You named your child what you planned, and you haven't let her tantrum change your mind or rattle you. I especially like that your husband's family is basically laughing at her. That is how that kind of absurd entitlement should be dealt with.

NTA.
NTA

There are 3 cousins in my family with the same first and middle name. Family reunions were always a trip when they all showed up. SIL needs to get over herself and just enjoy every precious moment with her child...
So you call out the name and they both come over. AND? Sounds like years of fun and even more funny stories, especially if they are close.
NTA. Sis FA and FO. Bulaí fir!
Didn’t you post about this issue (with that exact same Irish name) just recently? Only just switching up some details in this one?
I think the whole name debate argument is pretty hilarious also.  People getting mad because someone else in the family has your childs name.... smh.  Name your kids whatever the heck you want, your SIL is totally out of line.  NTA.
NTA. You handled the situation like an adult (unlike your SIL) and named your son what you planned to name him. Since his father is NOT from Ireland and you  had made it clear you were going to use the name I honestly can't image another reason for her to do this except to 'steal' the name from you and cause trouble. She's probably doubly angry because you didn't cause trouble and reacted calmly so she looks double the fool. Well done!
I've known cousins with the same first name. Who cares?
Agree with both families. Your SIL is ridiculous, I can't understand her logic at all. NTA
NTA. She fafo‘d and it didn’t go the way she wanted 😂 I find it so weird when people use names other people specifically told them they will use for the child they are already pregnant with. I’m just imagining future conversation between your nephew and the family „why do I have the same name as my cousin?“ „Because your mom is an idiot“ 😂 
I’m gonna need an update when you send her the post though 😂
You have handled this beautifully. It's healthy for you and the boys and it drives silly nuts that you have denied the fighh.
We counted it up once and I think on both sides of my family there are something like 14 Davids - I think your family can support two Oisins
NTA - I LOVE that you still used the name you had been planning on using. This isn’t a first come, first serve kind of thing. I also love that every time she calls her son by his name, she’ll know she didn’t win this round.

May I suggest only referring to your nephew as Miguel from now on? Even better if you can have any other family members do this as well, but I’m petty like that
You can pronounce it differently if u want. If husband is Galway,  I assume he pronounces it ooh-sheen, nordies usually pronounce it awe-seen. Maybe a compromise. Good luck with the nut nob SIL regardless.
I have 2 cousins named sebastien, the mothers are sister but didn't like each other (didn't even see or spoke to the other one at the time). 
It was never an issue, they had nicknames
NTA she can accept it or she can change her son's name or she can throw tantrums the rest of her life. up to her
NTA
I have the same name as my cousin. My mom had my name picked out since she was a kid. My cousin was born a year earlier. It hasn’t made any difference in our lives, although i get the occasional misdirected fb msg. 😂
Nta.
NTA, but she's petty and an asshole for sure. This is all her fault.
NTA.

  
Does she at least pronounce your niblings name like it should be? Or does she use form that is americanized?
NTA and I love your husband and your family’s reaction.
NTA

My cousin and I have the same name, I went by a family nickname (shorter version of my first). Cousin and I went to the same university and had classes together. We had no issues. It could be because our name is so common for our generation. I’ve never been bent out of shape about it. My paternal family and husbands maternal family tend to reuse family names. Quite a few cousins with the same name. Nobody cares. My sister’s son had the same name as our cousin, name is from mine and his maternal side. Neither has cared. 

Your sister needs to get a grip. Your kid won’t be damaged by having the same name, she will damaged family relationships if she doesn’t chill. She knew what she was doing and it didn’t work.
NTA

Somehow, all the Michael’s and Rachel’s in the world get by just fine lol she’s being ridiculous
NTA. It’s great that pretty much everyone seems to be on your side.
NTA. I can’t believe they named their kid a stereotypical Irish name with a stereotypical Mexican/Spanish name. I sense teasing in their child’s future for this.
NTA: since you chose the name first, she is copying you, and she did not get away with it. Good for you!
# Do NOT tell people the baby names you like (or tell them fake ones). It only gives them ideas.
I wonder how little Miguel will react when he learns his mother didn't name out of love but out of spite...
Didn't we already have a thread about this name a couple of weeks ago?
I hope you complimented her on naming her baby after your husband...

Maybe (but only as long as your husband is ok with you doing so) you could ask her if there's something she needs to tell you about her relationship with him, or at least that's what [some random relative or friend] asked you. Then see how long it is until she changes the baby's name.

Well done, OP, you totally owned the situation. NTA, obviously.
We had this same story only a couple of months ago. This is almost certainly fake.
Repost. 

Bad bot.
Is this the same SIL that can’t even pronounce the name right?
I’m sure that I have read this one before…
I wish more people had this attitude. Poor SIL was hoisted by her own petard.
^^^^AUTOMOD  ***Thanks for posting! This comment is a copy of your post so readers can see the original text if your post is edited or removed. This comment is NOT accusing you of copying anything. Read [this](https://www.reddit.com/r/AmItheAsshole/wiki/faq#wiki_post_deletion) before [contacting the mod team](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose?to=%2Fr%2FAmItheAsshole)***

My brother and his wife has as much right to name their child whatever they want. I do not own my name. I have no right to dictate to my brother what he names his kid. 

With that in mind my husband's has a traditional family name that I love. Basically since he and I were dating and started discussing our future we agreed that our son would have that name. 

Oisín

My husband is Irish. Not in the Boston, my great great great grandfather came over in the 1800s kind of way. In the born in Galway kind of way. 

Neither my family or my sister in-law have any other connection to Ireland. 

She got pregnant right around when I did and her son was born two months before ours. 

They named my nephew Oisín Miguel. 

I did get upset or anything. 

When my son was born we named him Oisín Daniel. Like I had told her we would be doing. 

She has flipped out that two cousins will have the same name. She is nuts because our family is Hispanic and half of our cousins are named Carlos or Camilla. 

She is trying to insist we call him by his middle name or change his name. I told her to piss off. 

My mom is staying neutral but she was very surprised that my brother gave his son an Irish name he knew I was planning on using. She expected him to name him for our late father. 

Anyways my husband's family thinks the whole thing is hilarious, my family thinks my sister in-law is a weirdo and she thinks I'm an asshole for copying her.  

Whatever. I'm posting here and sending her the link so she can see outside opinions. 

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/AmItheAsshole) if you have any questions or concerns.*
You told her you were using Oisín and she decided to "block" you from using the name. It's such a weird thing to do. NTA at all, she's ridiculous.
NTA, you should go with the ‘but I thought that was what you wanted, why else would you have chosen the same name?’
NTA

Oisin is a great Irish name - as cousins you might want to call them their middle names at family gatherings but I know many kids, myself included, who share their father's name (and grandfather's in my case) -- that's a closer relationship than cousin and it's fine.

This honestly seems like a control game. Don't react or she'll win...
You are my hero! I love that you’re unbothered and named your child what you always intended, and it’s hilarious your sister is upset because what she did was obvious. She certainly can name her child anything she wants— but there’s no way she didn’t intentionally steal your name. I think it’s awesome that you shut the game down by continuing to do you. You’re awesome.
NTA. And the fact that you're sending her the link - RESPECT.
NTA.

There was a similar story before where a woman wanted to name her son after his father's ancestor, and her relative (sister or cousin) "claimed" that name out of spite (being unrelated to said ancestor) and against her own husband's will. First and middle name both. The first woman still named her son as planned. The second pair ended up renaming the kid.

I feel like that level of spite borders on child abuse. Whoever is not naming their child out of love is the A-hole.
NTA - anyway Ireland is full of Oisíns and we seem to manage.  😂
NTA

So, they stole the name and are cross at you for sticking to your plan? High five for sticking with this 💪🏻👏🏻👏🏻

Your brother and sister-in-law were clearly wrong for stealing it, especially when the name has zero to do with either of them. 

Your sister-in-law sounds like a delight to deal with. 

Please God I hope you forward this post and all the comments below to your brother and sister-in-law so they can read and hopefully comprehend that they are TA!
NTA they knew you were going up just that name and assumed if they did you'd be scared off of it. No idea why, my family is Latino and we also have a bunch of Charles/Carlos's.  They tried to steal the name and it bit them in the ass.  Frankly if you don't want your kid to share a name with a cousin then maybe don't name your kid the name that their cousins parents said they were planning on using.
Having cousins with the same name is Irish AF. NTA
Tell her to grow up and stop the drama
NTA. You were really chill and mature about the whole thing and you handled the whole situation with grace. Your SIL has some nerves... and she’s acting like an entitled little brat. She needs to calm down and grow up.
Italians have entered the chat.    Meet my wife’s uncle Joe.    And his brother, uncle Joe (seriously…).    And each of their sons and grandsons, Joe.
NTA, and I would get your husband to speak to her in Gaelic every time she complains about it.
You did nothing wrong, and if she gets pregnant again tell her you're planning on naming your next kid something ridiculous la-a and the dash isn't silent.
There are 8 johns in my fiancées family. Sometimes more than one person in a family has the same name. NTA
I feel like I might need a Reddit break because if I see another post about fucking baby names, I feel like I’m going to lose my fucking mind. 

NO ONE GIVES A SHIT. NAME YOUR BABY WHATEVER THE FUCK YOU WANT. NAMES CANT BE FUCKING STOLEN.
lol you’re so calm about it, NTA but your SIL is a huge one and a dummy for using that name with zero connection.
Thank the Lord!!! You are the first person I’ve seen on here that talked about a sibling or something stealing the name they chose and you still went through with it. 👏🏻 kudos to you because that’s awesome
This has to be fake. There was literally a post about this within the past month with the exact same name, except for the sister-in-law was mispronouncing the Irish name.
I mean what did she really expect, to pull a fast one on yall so you would be mad/sad and pick a different name? Yall just followed through with the name yall said. And I would ask her right back why doesn't she change the name or call him by his middle name. 

SIL sounds horribly entitled
I have 2 cousins named John/Jon. It;s really not a big deal.

  
nta
I really hope this isn't fake because it's hilarious and as an actual Irish person, I'm betting she's barely pronouncing it correctly. Just incase she is actually reading this, silly SIL you an eejit and thanks for a laugh (at you not with you) I pity your kid for having such a truly stupid mother.
Oisín is not a name you’d just *know* if you didn’t know someone Irish, IMO. I suppose you could find it in a baby name book but that seems unlikely. The fact that you said you were using that name, and it makes sense for you because your husband is from-Ireland-Irish and it’s a family name for him and the  your SIL decided to use the name assuming you then *wouldn’t* because she stole it first is a classic FAFO situation. If she didn’t want your sons to have the same name she shouldn’t have stolen your name. 🤷🏻‍♀️
Cool name for someone with an Irish surname. Silly name for someone with an Hispanic name.

Kudos to you for not getting upset at their theft of your name. They have the right to use it, but do not have the right to tell you that your child should go by his middle name. 

SIL is not a class act.

NTA
NTA 

No one owns names, but wtf with your SIL taking your hub’s traditional family name? How unhinged and “pick-me” do you need to be to start so much drama?

I am so proud you stood your ground and kept the family name.
Well well well, lesson learned for your SIL. If she hadn't tried to claim it first, she wouldn't have had to deal with this. I mean, for you, you have always wanted to name your child that name so understandable you don't mind sharing the name with someone else. Claiming the name was never in your agenda anyway.

But it's clearly in someone else's agenda. By someone else, I do mean your SIL.
NTA 

this reminds me of another post where a woman named her son Oisin, but she couldn't pronounce it (more like Oisin in Hoisin sauce) and OP corrected her. I secretly hope your brother and SIL also mess up the pronunciation.
This is why you never tell people your baby name. Like ever. 

But NTA your SiL though is something else 🙄
Need to know the SIL's reaction when she read this post!!
It’s hilarious to me to imagine her having to explain in the future where she got that unusual (to people who aren’t Irish) name. Like, OP’s husband IS Irish. SIL just cursed herself and her child with a lifetime of having to make up a good reason why they have that name
What’s so great is that OPs son has more claim to the name because his father’s Irish. The SIL has no Irish in her. The fuck is she giving an Irish name to a Hispanic kid?
My partner has like, 30+ first and second cousins and loads of them share names lol
My fiancé and my son (fiancé's stepson) both have the same first name. Somehow we cope. /s

How we distinguish one from the other: Martin and Marty; Aussie Martin and Pommy Martin; bearded Martin and non-bearded Martin; blond Martin and brunette Martin. 

OP could always distinguish them as "the actually Irish Oisin" and "not actually Irish Oisin".
Yep. I have two cousins on the same side of my family with the same somewhat uncommon name, born within a year of each other and were raised in the same state. They were buddies. It was a novelty sure, but it didn’t rip the family apart. 

Still have NO idea why it happened though! I need to call one of my aunts and see if they know.
Exactly! My cousin and I were both named after the same great grandparent, unbeknownst to either of our parents until  later on. We were born the same year and ended up spending a ton of time together growing up. It was never an issue... you just get used to it.
Seriously, there’s so many Patricks and Steves in my family. It’s not a big deal to have the same or similar names in a family. 


SIL is only making it a big deal because she thought OP would back down and grant her some kind of petty win over a unique name that probably means nothing more to her. She’s mental. 


Good on you, OP.
>  she's going to pretend that Moses had a third tablet saying that people own names,

Mighty fine phrase you got there.
Based off the Irish people I know, I can just imagine the jokes and laughs they are telling. Oh man, no one tells jokes like the Irish. Such good people.
Moses HAD a third tablet in Mel Brooks' History of the World.
Only Mel Brooks knew what was on the third tablet…
“The Lord Jehova has given unto us these fifteen… (slip, crash) ten! Ten Commandments”

Maybe it was on the one he dropped 
It was a two sided assignment. No one ever bothered to check the back of the tablets
My grandfather was one of 11(?) children.  Every single one of them named their first son after their father.  My father literally has almost a dozen cousins with the same name as him.
Between my dad's side and my mom's, I have two grandpa John, 3 uncle John, 2 cousin John, and 1 cousin Jack. I honestly considered it for our son, but went with a family name from my husband's side instead.

I also have a cousin who married a guy named Ted, and it's also my cousin's dad's, brother, and another cousin's name.
Mine had 2 names that were used multiple times among cousins of the same generation.  Nobody owns or has dibs on a name. Trying to claim otherwise is silly.
"Not you, John! Other John!"
2 Johns, 3 Michaels, 2 Elizabeths, and at least 4 with some form of my exMIL's name in theirs.  OP went with a family name.  SIL went cute.
Yeah. I actually am from the Boston area and a lot of the Italian and Irish families would have 4 Johns, 3 Pauls, with a few Josephs thrown in for color amongst the cousins. It's not unusual in the larger Catholic families.

It really was never an issue, the families adapted. Down South, they often would do something like JP (for Joe Paul) or Johnny Jim or something to differentiate them.
The names in our genealogy are killing me.  Mom had two brothers Fred and Frank. Grandfathers Fred and Frank. GF Fred had a brother Frank and GF Frank had a brother Fred. And don’t get me started on my Dad’s side. Fred had John who had Fred who had John who had Carl 😳
We have a bunch of Jerrys in our family...men and women.
Several cousins who are named Emily and Matthew and Andrew in my family. Somehow we keep it straight. :)
Hell, my brother and I have the same first name with different spellings.  He goes by his middle name and I go by my first name.  My  mother just liked the name.
My family had three sisters, all named 'Guthrun.' They were named after different people, and were called Big/Middle/Little Guthrun. Icelanders.
My dad’s family was similar. Soooo creative this bunch. GF: Robert John; Son1: Robert John Jr; Son2: John Robert. 😑
But it meant something to the sister-in-law. It meant putting OP in her place. The problem is, it didn’t go that way.
My partners family all have various family names, middle names, nicknames etc. Our son’s middle name is the same name as several older family members and is the same as god knows how many cousins. (They’re a big family). In some families sharing names is normal/expected.

That being said it’s hilarious the brother/SIL decided to name their kid an unusual name they knew OP was going to use, and then kick off when she used it 😂😂😂 Can’t wait till the kids are older and the one finds out he was named out of spite!
Idk about anybody else but I cringe super hard when someone names their kid a cultural name that has nothing to do with their own.
She seems pretty pathetic, trying to start drama like this at the expense of her kid. NTA
I feel bad for the kid if his parents are already using him for such petty shit.
Right, this OP is so cool, imma need to borrow some of that chill 😎
OP is definitely handling this right way. I was expecting her to say she flipped out on SIL/bro for "stealing" her name (which how these posts usually go) but instead...just cool as a cucumber, stuck with her plan... and now SIL is the one flipping out. LOLOL

Edited to add NTA
NTA Exactly! Every time I see a "my SIL snooped to find my baby name" or "my sister has known this was my baby name since we were 7" post I want this to be the outcome!

Good on OP for not letting this awful person win. Your phrasing for OP is perfection. 👏
Also, at some point her oisín is going to ask where his name came from and she’s going to look like a full ass fool in front of her own child.
NTA but SIL is a weirdo, who names a kid after their BIL and not even a husbands brother which might still be normal but a husbands sisters husband lol
NTA Completely agree, FAFO. SIL you’ve given the internet a good laugh.
I love how people think their choices are someone else's problem. That's only true if they decide its their problem. 

OP doesn't give a shit so it's clearly not HER problem.  ;)
Good for you! NTA!
My friend went through this. She found out when she was 14 how she got her name and why her aunt was never around and started going by her middle name after that. When she turned 18 she changed her name to her middle name and reached out to her aunt to apologize. She has no relationship with her mom now but her, her aunt and 2 cousins have a great relationship now. The parents do this stuff and don't think about the consequences when they do it. The kids always find out.
This right here all the way. OP is NTA and this comment covered everything nicely.
*faze
SIL is also welcome to use the middle name solution she suggested!
Op is obviously NTA, but this reminds me so much of a post not long ago but from the husband's perspective. He was irish and named Oisin and the problem was the SIL wanting to name her baby that but she couldn't/wouldn't pronounce it right and instead pronounce it like "Ocean"... All that being said having close family members with the same name can be a little confusing and the kids themselves sometimes end up using their middle names when they get older 🤷🏽‍♀️
he's only 2 mo old, sister still has time to change her mind 😂
Yes, absolutely, and is weirdly competitive or something?
Sounds like she tried to one up OP and is pissed she failed.
Dramatic (but not impossible) reason: It's actually BIL's and she named their secret baby using the name he very publicly wanted to name his son out of spite?

Even if that's way off base- it never occurred to her people would think strange stories about this? That maybe the kid would suffer for this?

God, I want her reply to this post so bad. Please, tell us your side.
This in so strange to me as well. How did bIL let his baby be named after his brother, if it wasn’t to honour him?
I'm a Jennifer with a cousin Jennifer from the 60s.
Soooo many Matthews, Michaels, and Josephs in my Boston Irish catholic family.
Me and all my female cousins born in the same year are named with the first initial S and Nicole as the middle name and I’m talking first cousins, second cousins, my moms seconds cousins kids etc. My aunts name was Nicole and she passed away the year before we were born and she was supposed to be named Samantha (her grandfather was religious and she was born around the same time Bewitched came out and he wasn’t having a grandchild named after a witch). So I’m Samantha Nicole and everyone else is S. Nicole. A lot of my outings live in the same really small town so like a third of their graduating class had the initials SNP which was a fun ceremony to watch.
OMG, my name & another cousin’s rhyme and we have the same middle name. I’m a decade older than my cousin. When I asked my aunt why she used that name, she said she thought it just sounded good. I’ve been randomly referred by my cousin’s name ever since.

IDC. She named her kid through inception, which is ultra cool.
So glad I'm not the only one that remembers that post. It is way too similar to be a coincidence. 

Everyone thought SiL was nuts then too. NTA.
a it was from the husbands POV? I couldn't remember that bit but I immediately remembered that post. Thought this here was an update first
I have a Mexican-Danish-German cousin named Declan.  It happens.
Imagine the story the kid will have to tell. “My mom wanted to spite my aunt so I ended up with this name”. She’s TA for not even trying to name her son with something he could later value as his own.
I don't know, I went to school with a black Siobahn.
Just imagine when Miguel grows up and \*ahem\* pleases a girl and she says "O Miguel!" and he can say "yep, that's my name!"

Just trying to think of a benefit for the cousin who didn't ask to receive a copycat name...
Lots of Irish people went to Argentina so an Irish first name with a Latin last name might not be so uncommon.
In the US, most states will ket you change the name on the birth certificate for a couple years. 

We changed my DD’s middle name from the drug-influenced choice of “Trixie” after the Mo Willems heroine of “Knuffle Bunny”. (Csection with complications meant I was nicely drugged up.) 
My mother said it sounded like a dog’s name. (Yes you know all the important things about my mother now.) 
We changed it to “Elizabeth”, right around the time she started telling all her friends her name was Beatrix. Le sigh. It cost maybe $30 to file to change the name, $35 for a new birth certificate. Still working on the SS ID.

Changing your name as an adult is more work and more expensive, and involves more pieces of ID.
I'm pretty sure there is an Irish name troll. There is always an Irish person (sometimes OP, sometimes partner), a dumb American sister in law and drama of some sort around an Irish name. Oisín has  featured twice. 


There's been way way too many for it to be coincidental.
There was definitely one where somebody "stole" the name and couldn't even pronounce it right.
I had to scroll way too far to find this comment.
yeah we did. there was some weirdness with the spelling on the SILs part
I thought so, too. Something about having a name that sounded like "ocean".
I think not the same name but I do remember it was Irish. The OP spelled it the traditional way and the copycat spelled it phonetically.
I was looking for this comment, I was like oh the wife's POV.
Yea I’m almost certain this is a repost from a month or so ago
I was going to say… I think it was actually the husband that posted that IIRC, I remember reading it out loud because it was nuts! I wonder if this is the same family?
My husband and inlaws are Hispanic. My son is the 4th in line with his first name. I live with my inlaws so we currently have three men in the house with the same name(son, husband, and FIL)

The only time it actually is an issue is when we get mail and we have to guess which one it is because it didn't have the middle initial.

The funnier one is I'll call for my husband and my MIL will ask me "Your husband or mine?"
that’s what i was thinking. it was slightly different but same name and shit
You aren't. This is basically a copy/paste from another post.

These types of posts show up daily (often multiple times a day).
This has been questioned several times in this thread. I wish OP would address this. The coincidences are hard to ignore.
>May I suggest only referring to your nephew as Miguel from now on?

Or even better: "Osín" (which is a silly Spanish variation of "little bear").
In Munster it's Uh-sheen
In my personal headcannon, cousin's hispanic family will pronounce her baby's name as if it were Spanish, so maybe [ɵ](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Close-mid_central_rounded_vowel)-SIN? I lived in Laredo for awhile, and met several moms that picked foreign (Russian, Polish, Irish, Persian) names out of baby books, and just pronounced them as if they were Spanish, so the picture in my head is very clear.
Yup I’m Korean and my mom for some reason named me Fabio and now I’m always explaining to people why I have this name
Am I the only one confused what the hell OP's brother thought? Why would we name our son after the BIL?  If my sister married someone with a different name to our culture I just don't see why I would use it and would be very suspicious if my wife suggested it because honestly I'd think she wanted to name him after the father.
As a Latina that made me laugh. It's like if me and my very Norwegian SO named a child an Asian name that had no personal connection to us. I strongly suspect SIL suffers from Main Character syndrome.
Bet he has a nice Irish last name to go with it too. SIL did *not* think this thru at all.
😂 It makes no sense haha
lol 

"Oisin, come here!" 

"Which one?????" 

"*Hispanic* Oisin!!" 

...OP's SIL doomed her kid to a lifetime of being "Hispanic Oisin."
I know. I’ve never heard it, but I love it!
That's the one Mel Brooks dropped.
I'm gonna use this but say 5th to remind that Moses broke the first pair out of rage.
Thou shalt not covet thine SIL’s baby name, nor any name that is hers.
Especially shaggy dog jokes. So good.
Lmao when my now fiance first met my family I was like just say Michael or Mark you got a 50/50 shot at being right
I bet that was really confusing to everyone but family.

Sounds like the Dutch naming tradition.  And Scots naming tradition.  My ancestry is full of many cousins with the same name.

One of my husband's ancestors married a man whose dad was born in Scotland, but immigrarated to USA. Named him after his Scots grandpa.  As did his brother. After her husband died of complications of a wound suffered in the US civil war, she remarried. To a cousin of husband 1.  Husband 2 had the same exact name, township of birth, and birth year. They both enlisted at the same time, so military recods were confused.  And then they married the same woman! When I was doing genealogical research, I was so confused.  The records were often conflated into one person. How could her husband be buried in a certain cemetery and still show up with her alive on a census?  The only thing that helped me figure it out was that I knew about naming traditions.
My MIL and four (I think, I can't keep track) of her sisters have the same first name, but they all use their middle name.

A bunch of her male cousins have the same name, which makes it simultaneously easier and more confusing for me.
Same with my husband 😂 all the first born sons have the same name
Exactly.  All my great grand father’s brothers had the first name William- after their dad. William Robert,  William Henry,  William Andrew.    

That wasn’t even cousins.  They all somehow managed to know who was who. ‘Little Bobby’ had that name until he was 65 but still.
My fathers family did the same thing. A relative was once a known local politician, so everyone did an honor name. Then the honor names had Juniors. It's terrible, at least OPs kids have different middle names. 
This is a common tradition in many cultures as well as a genealogist’s nightmare. Even better is every daughter named Maria with a different suffix (middle) name.
Yep, in my dad's family they all kept making their firstborns the same name, and there were seven guys with the same first and last name in my family. Was a nightmare for all of them in modern times, so my generation broke the tradition.
All 7 of my aunts had the first name Mary and all 5 boys were named Joseph. Everyone went by their second name.
That's also the greek naming tradition. My maternal grandparents had a bunch of children and they all named their kids after grandpa and grandma. I have about 6 cousins named Eleni/Elena and 8lat least 8 Giannis. It's ridiculous
I recently tried to make a family tree of my husbands family. It took a while to figure out why Josef died in April 1945 and then again in November 1945. I first thought one of the dates was wrong but it turned out that they were father and son. Josef senior died in November while Josef junior died in April.
All I can think of is My Big Fat Greek Wedding. "That's Nick, Nick, Nick...and Nikki."
The amount of Michael Johns and John Michaels we have in the family is mind-boggling!😆
My family was similar. They basically came to America and picked like three/four name they liked and everyone was named those names. My grandfather lived next door to his uncles, including the one he shared a name with, nbd. 

My dad was exactly like OP: going to name my sisters after his favorite uncle, and when his SIL took the name two days before my older sister was born, my mom panicked but he shrugged and said, “then there’s going to be two.” And guess what? A year later if I had been a boy, there also would have been two. 😂
One side of my family has Joe, Joe, Jr., Big Joe, Little Joe, Baby Joe, and Other Joe. I am not jo-king!
“First John, Second John….John 3, John 4…..Five! Six! No, not you, number Seven!”
I had a close colleague named John, my husband's name is John. So when I'd talk to people at work, they'd ask, "What does John think?" I'd say, "Work John or my John?"

 Turns out that Work John has two sisters who both married John's, and none of them claimed Johnny. He said family BBQ's were hilarious because someone would be yelling, "John!! We need you" and they'd all show up.
And all the women going by their middle name because they all have Mary for a first name? One friend had her aunts Mary Ellen, Mary Anne, Mary Katherine.....
Right? You just make it work because that's just how it is. I've never once confused my brother Rick for my cousin Rick, or my two Uncle Johns.  

OP's family's name is just a little more uncommon than most instances where this happens.
We have 3 Emily's, 3 David's, 2 Roberts/1 Roberta. It's a large family on both sides.
Can you imagine that kid asking his mom why she named him Oisin? She’s going to have to pull some meaningful reason out of her ass 😂
There are many good reasons to do so. E.g.: honor a friend, honor someone you admire. Of course, SIL's motive, annoy a relative, is not one of the good ones.
I’m the same.
Also, nothing solidifies husband's Irish heritage than the family finding this whole situation hilarious. Trust the Irish to take the piss out of everything.
I love that.  We have two Rivers within the cousins. We just call them boy river and girl river. Boy river will also accept being called Rio
Can op hold my beer for a second it done got too warm. Ice cold now. Thank you ma'am
She's the gold standard of coolness
I love how she handled this. I’ve read about so many relatives doing this to their sister or SIL! I’m past the age of worrying about it but I think anyone with an iffy sister or SIL should just make up some name they would never use, and preferably dislike, and put that out there. If it does get used imagine the private enjoyment!
Yes! And an extra awesomeness is OP adopting the perfect response ( most likely from her hubby) piss off.
That's the best part 🤣🤣🤣 It totally backfired and now SIL is losing her mind.
Uno Reverse card at its finest!
This is always how I want these posts to go 🤣 

AITA had convinced me that whenever it is my time to procreate, there's no chance in hell I'm telling anyone any names. Or maybe we should all start giving wild fake names so the crazies who apparently get off on baby name thievery get duped?
The one I saw yesterday was so sad though. Her sister snooped and found out from a name book in her room and said she was using it since sis kept having miscarriages and would never use it. I was thinking all sorts of bad names about her in my head and wanted to hug OP. So sad
See, that’s what always gets me with this shit and people who “steal” names from loved ones like SIL did from OP. This isn’t “just” a baby. It’s a whole-ass person! They’re gonna have this name their entire life! You’re going to use it all the time, every day, constantly. One day they’ll ask you why they have the name they do! 

So instead of something you love, something with meaning to you, even just something you adore the sound of… you snipe a name from someone else. Like, instead of putting thought and care into the first gift you’ll ever give to your child, you go with petty “just to fuck with my SIL” vibes? Wtf? Fucking *why*, man!?
The type of person to behave this way is oft not the person who would tell the truth in that situation.
I wonder if SIL even thought of the rumors and raised eyebrows that could cause in the future.🤔
Thank you for catching that 😊
No doubt. And has a thing for Irishmen.
Just why are there so many AH's manufacturing competition? What are they competing for? They make a show of cocking their legs to piss on people for no reason other than "domination" like that's the only thing they can do to feel better about themselves. It makes them look weird and pathetic.
Her plan didn't just fail, it backfired. OP's family now sees SIL in a different not very flattering light now. And even though OP'S mom is staying neutral, this is definitely going to change the relationship between them. And not in a good way. I mean, she expected them to name the baby after her late husband. Her DIL AND son's actions had to have hurt and probably still does.
My mom’s generation has multiple Cheryls and Debbies. Never been an issue!
Haha I hear that!!
That is so fun, I love it.
That is amazing!
It does happen. And American schoolchildren don't care. They are little AHs when it comes to names. And since OP mentioned Boston... that implies she's in the US.
[deleted]
There are black Irish people, maybe that's why no one was arsed about it?
lol! I did too! In the 70s!
Was scrolling by way too fast and read that as Black Sabbath. That would be such a metal name.
As I said, it flows nicely. But if OP lives in the US, which it sounded like from the Boston comments... it's a whole different ball game in school there.
I absolutely love the name Beatrix/Trixie 🙂
I’m pretty sure there was another Oisín post where someone apparently named their child after their Irish BIL, Oisín, but couldn’t pronounce the name right. What a coincidence…
I remember!  They wanted to call the kid “Ocean.”
It was the same name. It was from the husband's perspective and was his name. The sister in law spelled it the same but pronounced it incorrectly (like "ocean")

I don't think the OP's wife was pregnant in that story (and it was like a month ago) so this one is probably fake
Ohhh, yeah I think you're right! It was the husband!!
omg no thats hysterical im sorry
I am laughing so much 😭 Fabio is a lovely name but just the idea of a person having to explain that their entire life...
My cousin is Filipino and his name is Klaus, but we call him KJ 😂
What’s the story there?
Lmfao I logged in just to give this an upvote. 😭🤌🏻😂
I’ve been looking for this comment. I kept thinking I read it wrong since no one else is talking about how they used the BIL name for their son. This is weird right?
I would bet money that his wife has broken him down piece by piece until "pick your battles" became "I'm tired, boss"
I'd love to meet little Kim Jong Fjordensson
I know a couple that’s white and hispanic and gave their kid a Japanese name 🫣
Lol yeah you've got Oisen O'Donnell.... And Oisen Delgado.
I live in Donegal and personally know 3 Oisíns and I can't wait to tell them about this post 😆
Better than the pants-crapping, "Oisin Miguel you come here right now!"
[I first heard it here,](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nXeTsWGPT0w) but I've never heard it used to dismissively characterise a stupid rule before, so I'm *very much* stealing it for that.
I dated a guy where 95% of the men were named Michael. His mom had a brother named Micheal then she and her sister married Michaels and they all named a son Michael. My name used to be pretty unique until about 2002ish, one of his uncles asked if my parent's didn't like me because of my name. I replied, yes they liked me enough to give me my own name rather than recycling the same name over and over again.
Dang, Mark that is hilarious!
Oh gosh, all the Michaels in my family! At some point it started to be unisex so that made it even more fun at gatherings.  Poor, "Little Baby Michael" is in college.
So in a way you'll be sure to hit the Mark? 🤓
Dammit my brothers are mark and Mike. lol. And we have multiple makes with the same  Mike (lastname) in our family. lol.
I'm Dutch, when I was investigating my family background I found out they recycled their names at least since 1500.
The first son was named after the father's father, the second son after the mother's father, and the daughters the same, first the name of the father's mother and then the mother's mother. The second son was called after the oldest brother of the father's father, etc.
So what was that name ?
Same with my aunts, they all have the same first name but go by their second name. Except for the eldest, who used both her first and middle name as a matter of course.
My mom's name is Mary Lynn and her sister's name is Mary Alice. My mom goes by her full name and her sister just goes by Alice, thankfully.
In my family there's one case where the grandmother was Anna Maria, and her son named his daughters Maria Anna and Anna Marie. I kind of like that.

On my German side, it's really common for the sons to be something like Johann Georg, Johann Martin, Johann Peter, Johann Philipp, etc., and the daughters are Maria Anna, Maria Elisabeth, Maria Christina, Maria Barbara, etc., but then there are usually one or two kids with "random" names like Wilhelm Friedrich or Paulina Hildegard. But all the Johanns and Marias are called by their "middle' names.
Yes! that always makes me laugh. Or when you get a group of Italians together and there's Joe, Nick, Tony, Anthony, etc.
I came here specifically looking for this.
George Foreman's sons are all named George. 🙂
My grandfather was the first son born in the US from a Greek family.  When it hit the Blockbuster stands, we rented the VHS and watched it with him. He was a very stoic individual, but I’ve never seen him laugh so hard at anything as I did with that scene with the names (and the flashback Greek school math problem scene was the other one that cracked him up). That movie will always hold a special place in my heart because of those memories.
I’m wondering it’s a catholic thing because my dad’s side of the family is catholic widwesterners and all of them are named stuff like Michael, Mark, John, Peter, Teresa, Mary…
My husband’s family is the same! They’re Catholic
My Narcissist ex mother in law complained about the name I chose for my daughter then had the audacity to claim that she was the one who picked it out when people started saying how pretty it was. My daughter told me about how her grandma once told her how she picked out her name from some story she read. (MIL fancied herself as an intellectual)  It was all bull shit. My guess is she googled the name and found it in a book and claimed to have read the book and said that’s where she got it from. I said “absolutely not. I came up with that name.” She asked how. I said “I met a girl from UK at the food court once when I used to with there. She was a very pretty and very sweet girl and I really liked her name and it stuck with me.” “So you just named me after a girl you met at the food court?” “No. I gave you a name that I thought was very pretty. It just so happened that I heard it from someone I met at the food court. I didn’t name you AFTER this girl.”
Oisin Daniel will be able to clear it up for him. lol
I bet SIL is regretting the name now.  So your nephew may be referred to as Miguel
This is so accurate 😂
It’s a hard name to pronounce - I wonder if they can even do that correctly.  It would be more hilarious if not.
Came here to say I'd be very disappointed in OPs in laws if they weren't laughing hysterically.... coz I am 🤣🤣🤣 well done OP! Welcome to the world Oisin Daniel 😍
This.  I read that and thought-okay, this is for real real...
Exactly.

While my family is a few generations removed from Roscommon, we would find it hilarious and SIL a weirdo as well.
That’s exactly what I was thinking.
I'm Irish and it is hilarious. Oisín Miguel...I'm dying. The poor child.
I too am Irish and that was my exact thought when I read the bit about his family. I’m absolutely cracked by it
Honestly it’s kind of common to have cousins sharing names here, I have two cousins with one name, one uncle and two cousins with another. Families get big so you run out lol
I'd totally be calling that kid Rio...that's awesome.  The girl I'd wanna call Dr Song
Right?!? SIL totally expect to "win" by OP freaking out and/or choosing a different name. NOPE. hahahahah. And the fact that SIL has zero Irish connection yet chose a very obviously Irish name makes her look all the more foolish, and people will likely see right through her shenanigans.
There might not have been much of a mind in the first place. 😁
I'd point that out "you knew I was planning to use this name, did you assume I'd change my mind after you used it? And now you're pissed that I didn't?
I mean... my entire friend group - and a large number of former colleagues - Already know what my lifelong desired firstborn daughter's name choice is, *and* the reasoning behind it. And why her brother is going to be an AJ xD (although it would be ironic if I have son first then daughter, cuz then I'd have AJ KLM as birth order 🤣🤣)
I really hope they have a kid and still give the kid the name. That one made me take a break from the Internet yesterday.
This, OP should ask if SIL has a crush on her husband.
And OP says their family’s are both Hispanic. So it’s clearly not from her culture (which is fine of course) but when people are going to ask where she got the name from, what is she gonna reply? My SILs in laws are Irish and it’s their family name?!

There aren’t any pop culture uses of that name, no one outside of Celt speakers will be able to pronounce it easily.  It’s gonna be hilarious
Not to be rude, but since I saw this scene I can't listen the name "Debbie" and not remember this:

**Dr. Kelso:**  
Listen up, faces. In order to save us all some time, I will call all the males "Daves" and all the females "Debbies".

**Debbie:**  
\[excitedly\] Debbie is actually my name!

**Dr. Kelso:**  
Then out of fairness to the others, you will be "Slagathor". Daves, Debbies, Slagathor, I will be in my office. If you need anything, feel free to bother Dorian.
Sophie, Emma, Jacob, and most recently, Isla have entered the chat.
It’s very special to us and the middle name has continued into our generations kids but I think my voice after watching all my cousins graduate was a little rough and my hands definitely hurt from clapping for that long. And watching the principal announce the names in order was hilarious because they all included their middle names so for like 7 people in a row he had to announce the same middle and last name
Don’t you just love multiculturalism!?
Hmmm, this was grad school, but I think she would still be a bit too young to the same person unless you are talking pre-school.
Ocean
Yeah! It was from the dude's perspective who has the name and she couldn't even pronounce it right so he thought it was weird and hilarious.
My in-laws had a beautiful white poodle named Fabio. No need to explain that one. 🤣🤣🤣
He must be sick of Santa Claus jokes
He's the most beautiful man in the universe.
Yeah as soon as I opened it, that's what I thought of.  Like if I married into a different culture and my in-laws wanted to use my name for their child I'd be thoroughly confused.

u/B186 I can't think of a different reason besides SIL really hating OP.  Like that kid is going to figure out why they were named that very quick. My kids potential names are already off the list if a close in-law has that name.
I can't stop thinking about this. What other reason would she have?
Seems like a case of the Brother just has no backbone to disagree with his insane wife.
Possible, but it's still really weird.  The name of your child not being that of your brother in law is not one to drop because you're tired.
Okay, but ironically enough Kim, short for Joakim, is a fairly common mens name in Norway(especially for people around age ~40). I also wouldn't bat an eye at Jong, maybe it could be a strange spelling of the german Jung. But Fjordensson... I cannot recall anyone with that name. I guess it looks norwegian enough, feels slightly American? So yeah, that could just be a norwegian dude for all I know
You made me scare my dog with my laughter!
I'm nosy, so I would love to know what they say. 
You must come back and update us on your friends reactions
History of the World Part 1 - classic!
In my family it’s Ali. Shout out Ali at a family gathering and half the men will turn around. 

My grandmother had 8 sons. She came up with different names for all of them. And yet no one felt like being that creative the next generation along!
Okay, this is even worse than my exes family. 10+ generations of "firstborn son is a Michael", Michael as a middle name runs in my family, and so damn many of the guys I've liked have Michael as a middle or first name xDD Whyyy is the name so common aside from biblical reasons
Once you get into more than one modifier, it mentally gets into “No’-as-big-as-Medium-Sized-Jock-but-bigger-than-Wee-Jock-Jock” territory for me, and that always makes me internally giggle.
I was told in my Dutch family it was dad got to choose first name, mom second one and so on back and forth.  Started with their folks' names unless there was a special reason. My grandpa named his first after his brother who had recently died.  His second turn was after his dad.  But the pattern that you mention would fit my family so perhaps my mom told me incorrectly.  But other family patterns seem to match the parents taking turns with some variations.

Gender match didn't matter much as they just changed the names a bit.  My great grandma was Jacoba and had two sons and a daughter with similar names: Jacobus, Jacoba, and Jacob. Maybe they were named after grandparents/uncles/aunts.  Or her.  Her husband was Adrianus and other kids were Adrianus and Adrianna.  I thought when I was younger they just ran out of names as they had 12 kids (not counting the ones who died) but now I think it was intentional.
I’m Dutch too, and my (big, catholic) family  does this. We also have stayed in the same village for at least 200 years and somehow turns out a LOT of boys (e.g. my dad - 13 siblings, only 2 girls and this happened over 4 generations). So the last name has exponentially multiplied too.
My brothers have many cousins (first, second and third degree) with exactly or almost exactly the same name. 
It’s funny to us and we (family and other villagers) can keep them apart by calling them “-his name - of -fathers name - of -grandfathers name” and within each generation they have discriptive nicknames (like Tall X, Short X, farmer X or Barber X , and then Big (nickname-)X and little (nickname-)X for fathers and sons) but people who didn’t grew op here get confused a lot 😂
Especially when I married a guy from out of town (but made him live here) and people still call MY kids by MY last name instead of his 🤦‍♀️
Small town xenophobia trumps the patriarchy I guess..
I’ve done some German research and have seen the Johann situation as well as the odd man out name. Like an entire line of Johann and Hans and suddenly there’s an Edward. I thought surely there must be some story behind the name, but I never found one. Just a random guy named Ed with his brother Johann and his other brother Johann.
Yep. On the Italian side of my family it is some form of Joe / joseph/joey and the whole bunch of Franks and Frankies. And the Frank even runs into the females in the family as there is a Francesca called Frankie and then several aunts and cousins named Fran or Franny. And about half the women in the family have Frances as a middle name.
I think his daughter is, too.
My grandfather did a deep dive into the family tree to prove my middle name came from his side of the family. He found a great-great-great-great aunt that nobody had heard of and claimed that’s where it came from. In reality my dad just liked how it sounds with my first name.
Dolly Parton named a song after a little girl who asked for her autograph, because she thought the name was pretty.

"I said, 'Well, you're the prettiest little thing I ever saw. So what is your name?' And she said, 'Jolene,'" Dolly said. "And I said, 'Jolene... That is pretty. That sounds like a song. I'm going to write a song about that.'"
I named my daughter Annabelle after the poem Annabelle Lee. Didn't know Anne was my MILs middle name. She tells everyone my daughter was named after her. Most people think I named her after the demonic doll.
I'm so curious about the name nowww
That’s very similar to how my name came about. My parents couldn’t agree on a name and then my dad met some girl at work and was like “wow that’s a pretty name, can I steal it?” And she said “sure! But you have to spell it the girl way” and that’s how I got my name with it’s weird spelling :)
Lol my mom told me I was named after a book. But then a couple years ago I found the book and it was first published four years after my birth so.... What the hell mom?
My dad did the same. When my parents couldn't decide on a name for me since they had different opinions, he apparently said "I know someone called *insert my name* and think the name is beautiful. Should we use that?". My mom also found the name beautiful and so I was named the name.

They really couldn't agree before that. Although my mom said it's good I was born a girl because they never managed to agree on a name for a boy. 

Cue me eventually finding out the name they gave me is unisex as in other countries it exists as a name for boys.
Yeah, because there won't be anyone else in the family called Miguel /s
Miguel... Wasn't there's a tiktok audio 'run Miguel run? Now I'm laughing myself..
Just have sister in law re-name him Guinness.
Maybe she can call him Mikey.
I kind of wonder if SIL’s even pronouncing it correctly. Is she stealing the baby name and calling her kid Ocean with the wrong pronunciation or not? Because if so, they could be Ocean and O-sheen with no confusion, regardless of spelling. 
I read a story about someone meeting their cousin's baby or toddler for the first time. I forget the exact details but the relationship wasn't so close that they talked on the phone, they had got the child's name by text or email. So when they met little Oisin for the first time, they pronounced it correctly - and caused carnage. Turned out the parents had loved the name as written but never checked the proper pronunciation. It might even have been someone asking this sub if they were the AH for pronouncing it correctly!


Edit: [I found it!](https://www.reddit.com/r/AmItheAsshole/comments/kkld7y/aita_for_telling_my_cousin_and_his_wife_that_they/) It seems they used Oisin as a replacement name to protect the guilty lol.
What could be more funny is, did the sil even spell it right on the birth certificate? I mean if she only ever heard op say the name but never saw it written down..
How is it pronounced?  In my mind it's kind of like Ocean, but having just vacationed in Ireland I know it's going to sound nothing like that.  LOL
We’ve seen a number of these lately. Wha assholes bro and sil are!
My friend is welsh and moved to the US when he was a kid (has no accent). Named his kid a welsh name and according to his uber-welsh mom, they don’t say it correctly.
Oooh, I can see an ongoing debate about which cousin's name is being pronounced correctly and OP and her husband being all, well, if you knew anything about Irish names...
It’s not a hard name to pronounce at all? Uh-sheen
Same. Hell half of us share family names anyway
Her mom did name her after river song.  I'm step-mom :)
Then there's the part where SIL's child is absolutely going to HATE his name because to him, it's just a weird name that no one can spell or pronounce correctly.  Whereas the OP's child will understand that his name ties him to his roots and his family, and will probably think it's a cool name.
I love that you used "shenanigans" 🍀
SIL will spend the rest of her life explaining to people why she gave her obviously non Irish son an obviously Irish name.
So have we officially declared SHENANIGANS?
I hope so too. Let's all send her good juju to get pregnant just to have the sister get the FO part of the FA when she still names him that
The funniest thing is that OP’s kid is theoretically going to have a super Irish name (presuming their last name is of Irish origin) and SIL’s kid is going to have a mix of ethnicities (presuming their last name is of Hispanic origins). It’s going to be hilarious watching her try to explain an Irish name with no family connection
I feel really bad for the kid. He's definitely going to get bullied for it. Also there's no way he's not going to find out why he has that name. And when he does, his relationship with his parents is going be severely damaged.
HAHAHA best response!!
You are my kind of people lol
Hahahaha god that show was so perfect. A perfect 8 seasons.
Oh my god, yes. And Isabella.
That feels like a sitcom in the best way!
Nope. Middle school. She’d be in her 60s now.
And he once got hit by a goose on a roller coaster.
I have a theory with these situations. I think the SIL could hate OP and thought they were doing something by 'taking' the name. Maybe she thought OP would have to pick another name.

But I also think some folks just truly lack any creativity of their own. SIL could have picked any name. But chose to pick her BILs name? Literally doesn't make sense. Especially since there isn't a cultural connection to the nephew.

Like maybe when SIL heard the name OP chose and saw the positive reactions she was getting she decided to 'take' the name and attempted to steal that positive attention for herself?

It totally backfired on her of course. I'm glad OP decided to go ahead with her plan.
I agree
I made it up. In my head, it means "Son of the fjords".
First read of this comment was slightly jarring for me. I shorten my (female, non Alison-esque) name to Ali, and the number of people who misspell it or ask, "like Mohammed?" To an ghostly white woman is baffling
Crivens!
My mom’s side is of Italian descent and there were a LOT of Mary and Rose. There’s still a couple of Mary but most of the older generation is gone. I also had an oddball name in the family. It was Quinto. As in “fifth” cause he was the fifth kid. It was a joke that they just ran out of names and went “well you’re the fifth kid. So Quinto”. What’s hilarious is they had kids after Quinto and they got normal names. There were also several more traditional Italian names in the family but it mainly died out once it got to my mom’s generation. Except for my uncle. He didn’t escape the super Italian name that absolutely no one outside of family can pronounce. ☠️
I'm entering my late thirties. My first name has a very non traditional spelling and it's been hell my whole life. Constantly have issues with medical records and bills. 

My mom **finally** admitted she thought it was a pretty name and just made up the spelling. I laughed my ass off. I love her so much, but man.
You should tell people your daughter isn’t named after the doll but your MIL is.
As The Prophecy Foretold
I mean really. Like ma'am you're Hispanic fuck off with that shit lol look at Hispanic American culture and tell me how many names are recycled 100s of times. I have 4 or 5 names right off hand that are common Hispanic names in my family lol.
Yeah, seriously, I'm white, but I've been very close to many Hispanic families, they reuse names like they're going out of style. So many primas and primos with the same name. I think that's why they're so big on nicknames (hardly any of the kids I went to high school with used their actual names, everyone had a nickname).
I'm partial to Seamus. I hope I spelled that correctly, I'm so not Irish. But I really like that name.
Brilliant!!
I remember that one. They pronounced it like Hoisin without the H!

Edit: I found the one I was thinking of...
https://www.reddit.com/r/AmItheAsshole/s/9Mw3uyxoFp
Heard someone on radio 4 today called Niamh. They pronounced it nee ay emm he 
So weird not knowing how to properly pronounce your own given name
I met a child called Joachim once. They pronounced it Jo ah chim.
I saw that too - it’s why I figured they pronounced it wrong since they seem really dumb.
I’m Irish but have distant relatives in the US. Several of them have named their kids Irish names or variations on Irish names. And it’s lovely, they do it right. But one of them used the Irish spelling for Ryan, and I hadn’t see them in ages so the next time I was visiting I asked if they were using the a Irish pronunciation also and they hadn’t realised it was different. He had started school and everything so they couldn’t change the pronunciation by then.
Thank you for posting this comment.....I really wasn't sure how to pronounce what I was reading!!
Oh my goodness. That would be hilarious if it's misspelled. Everyone will just assume it's a tragedeigh name, even though SIL was going for a traditional Irish name for no damn reason. 

Either way, when the kid does the typical family tree project in school, there will be some puzzled teachers.
My ex SIL did this - deliberately "stole" my name for a girl (Freya) but spelled it... Frayah.  I burst out laughing when I saw the birth announcement and decided she was welcome to it.
Usheen
oh-sheen or uh-sheen
[Pronunciation](https://www.youtube.com/watch?app=desktop&v=8TeLWb9QlTY)
OhSHEEN
https://youtu.be/8TeLWb9QlTY?si=O6Ao1wyi8vd2IWbX
Nothing like it - I tried to link something but am on mobile.   You can google the pronunciation.
Ush-sheen
Uh Sheen or Ush een
My dad's family alternated back and forth each generation with a set of first and middle names for the oldest son. One generation got  one version, the next go the other and continued back and forth each generation.

It makes any kind of genealogy research hell 😂
Half of my cousins have Patrick either as first or middle name. The rest are either Michael, John, or Joseph. My dad was Patrick Joseph. My brother is Michael Patrick. My uncles were John Michael and Michael Patrick... Seriously not kidding...
TOTALLY!
This !  Can you imagine being the Hispanic kid called Oisin !! Hysterical !  If they were australian everyone would call out Oi ) as in the chant Aussie Aussie Aussie oi oi oi ) then Sin and he would become Sin !!! I’m guessing the Hispanic family is catholic ! 🤣
Right?? SIL's kiddo is going to continue to have his name butchered by so many adults around him, and OP's kiddo will be surrounded by adults who know exactly how to pronounce it.
Say "shenanigans" one more time!!
That kid is going to go by his middle name, and likely change his name when he gets older.
and lying, most likely, as the real reason is "I was childishly trying to piss off my SIL"
I'm picturing like "Here's Oisín Daniel McBain. And his cousin, Oisín... Miguel Rodriguez?"
Especially with his cousin having the same name. He’s gonna ask why….
I’m told it’s a very popular name in Scotland where it’s short for Alistair 😂
Im 100% mexican and once upon a time i ended up "Antonio-ed" from every angle!! Father, (ex)boyfriend( and his dad ofc) best friend, closest cousin and 2 or 3 of my friends SOs XDDD
I’m Mexican American and 8 of my male cousins all have the same name. My grandmother and my great aunt shared the same name. My mom told me if I had been born a male I would have been named the same name as one of my male cousin

Nicknames were/are big in my family as well. Even if you don’t share the same name you still get a nickname. That’s part of our love language

Do yall also show love by picking on one another? I ask bec that’s how my cousin and I show love to one another. I don’t pick on the cousin I don’t like .
I grew up with a girl named Hailey, whose family was from South America. It was funny, because as her family immigrated or visited, she’d introduce me to yet another cousin Maria or Carlos or Ana. It was sometimes hard to keep straight which of them she was talking about because of the same names. Her and her siblings were the odd ducks. 
It's pronounced oh-sheen
Woof.

I almost want to hear how they’d pronounce the name Caollaidhe. It’s my understanding that it’s pronounced ”KEE-lee.” 

Which reminds me of [this AITA gem](https://www.reddit.com/r/AmItheAsshole/comments/16hcd5l/aita_for_shutting_down_my_sisters_opinion_about/?rdt=59098).
That name is sort of popular in the US. Is it pronounced knee-v?
I was in the comments on something related to baby names, and this woman was complaining that her son's name was always mispronounced. His name was Loki. She pronounced it Lock-ee.
I think if it's your name, it's correctly pronounced however you say it is. But don't expect others to know that just by reading it.
Turns out my relative has been pronouncing Deirdre wrong for 50 years. We thought "dree" not "dra" for the end sound.
They actually pronounced it with a heh sound at the end? Lol
It’s spelled Ocean Miguel on the birth certificate.
Please, please, let her have spelled it "O'Sheen" like she thought it was Charlie Sheen's ancestral name or something.
Isheen, Usheen, we all Sheen for Oisin
Not accusing you of this but my friend group loves to share fake pronunciation videos and it makes me not trust any of these videos.
Ush-sheen
No
Yeah, no. Here’s an Irish person saying it.
[Ush-een](https://www.tiktok.com/@theirishdanielle/video/6841371449328930053?lang=en)
I was doing my family tree on ancestry. Got to a point where the parents names were Marie and Jean (French). Ok cool. ALL THE KIDS were named identically! That's were like 7 kids and all girls with exact name as mom all boys exact name as dad. My brain cells melted then I decided it was easier to call them for dinner this way and if one was in trouble they all were! No blame game in that house! I wouldn't have believed it but they all had documented birth and death dates that were different so it wasn't a case of them just being added over and over. After that I stopped building. My brain still hasn't recovered lol 😂 I know I yelled at my laptop that day sobering like "there are more names in the world!" Now that I think about it I wonder if literacy was an issue 🤔
You know, none of my Boston family is Patrick. And that’s kinda weird af cause they have a ton of pride in being Boston Irish. It’s all James and Johns and Pauls and Seans and Christophers
..."Hey, Farva, what's the name of that restaurant you like with all the goofy shit on the wall?"
#unexpectedsupertroopers
I'm the white girl of the family literally. I got the whitest of all names and my 3 siblings all have Hispanic or Hispanic adjacent names lol. Like damn I get my daddy was the white basketball player but I could have gotten a Spanish name 😂😂😂
Depends on where in Ireland.... We would say uh-sheen. (Uh pronounced as in uh-oh)
Thank you for putting in the pronounciation!  I was reading it as Hoisin without the H but I knew I was going to be wrong about that.
Welp, that's definitely not how I would have pronounced it.. Thanks for the clarification!
Oh cool then I had it right. I sat next to a girl named Roisin in one of my freshman classes so I was guessing based on that. I keep trying to learn how to pronounce Irish things but instead I'm just building a directory in my mind of Irish names I can spell and pronounce lol
No. It's pronounced Ush-sheen
More “Uh Sheen”
It’s Uh-sheen in Ireland. Irish born n bread- never heard anyone say Oh-Sheen
You're wrong it's pronounced uh-sheen
No it’s not. It’s ush sheen
And, more specifically, with the accent on the second syllable.
It’s Uh-sheen
No, it's uh-sheen.
No, it would need a fada on the O to sound like that. It's Usheen.
steer wise frighten unique muddle repeat grandiose squealing crush wakeful

 *This post was mass deleted and anonymized with [Redact](https://redact.dev/home)*
I'm guessing most people in this kids life are never going to pronounce it correctly.
Irish Gaelic "neev."
I've heard knee-ahv
Both the Marvel superhero and the parents of a mastiff mix with the same name pronounce it low-key
What a rotten name to give a kid! 
(Loki is a shape shifting trickster god so … yeah not a name I’d use for my kid or animal )
Barbra Streisand is a fine example of this - why do I need the extra a? It's outta here!
Yup
I say "dra" personally, but I've heard it both ways. I associate the "dree" ending with an Aussie accent, Wiktionary lists it as the primary UK pronunciation.
I'm Welsh and we would pronounce it the same as you - dee-dree. Similar to Dee Dee
Stop it. 🤣🤣
🤣
Charlie's ancestral name is actually O'Estevez
Honestly I really want to be part of that chat because I would love to hear someone make a video as if they were teaching pronunciation and be like "so k-n-i-f-e is pronounced 'kuh-nif-aye'"
This isn’t a fake video, but the guy is definitely not Irish and says it the way foreigners do with an oh rather than an uh sound.

[an Irish person saying Oisin](https://www.tiktok.com/@theirishdanielle/video/6841371449328930053?lang=en)
Shenanigans
Yea it's definitely more of an usheen kind or pronunciation here in the midlands
Oh, I was kinda hoping it was pronounced Ocean.
That's what I just saw when I googled how to pronounce Oisin
I think it also depends on how scuttered y'ar. Sláinte
Yea when I see Irish names I just go get google to tell me how to pronounce them because my English thinking brain NEVER gets it even close. 😂
It’s UH-sheen.
Irish names are truly something else. Unless you’re Irish, in which case I assume they’re just normal.
Ikr?? I was pronouncing it like verizon without the v.
When it comes to Gaelic languages, take everything you know about the English alphabet and throw it away lol
I asked Google for a pronunciation and it came back as oy-seen, so now I’m not sure which is correct.
It's a little different. It's all about the fada (the accent thing above the vowels). The fade elongates the letter, so it makes a different sound. The correct spelling is Róisín, but it's often simplified to Roisin in order to avoid confusion. Here's how the fada makes a difference in pronunciation:

A = "ah"/"uh"          Á = "awe"

E = "eh"/silent        É = "ay"

I = "ih" (like "it")      Í = "ee"

O = "uh"                  Ó = "oh", but longer

U = "uh"                  Ú = "oo" (like in moon)
went to school with a Siobahn. I may have been the only person who called her by the proper pronunciation on first meeting. However, she was friends with my friend's older sister, who was also in my brother's grade.  I kind of cheated. LOL.
That's what I meant to write 😂 I knew it was 1 syllable. Thanks!
That's the Ulster Irish pronunciation.  Most of us use the Munster pronunciation which is Neev.
And Stargate
Oh it's a good name for a mischievous black kitten
i'm pretty sure [this skit](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Dd7FixvoKBw) covers just such a situation.
We are Australian but I've heard "dra" more often in our media.
I learned it from Monty Python - Dear-Dree
As the mother of a daughter named Deirdre and living in Ireland, it’s definitely ‘Dear-drah’.
The "dree"ending is incorrect and butchers what is an ancient Irish name. The ending is pronounced "dra".
There was an almighty fight in my office once. Between an Irish Deirdre and a loud (but lovely) English bloke who kept on calling her Dear-drey. Eventually she snapped at full volume. 

I mean, to be fair, the only other Deirdre was Ms Barlow and that not how the Irish pronounce it.
PronunciationManual on YT.  Thank me later.
Yeah.... I mean... it's hard to trust someone with such a strong accent is capable of teaching other people how to pronounce a word.
...*holds out gun butt to Cap'* "OHhhh..."
That's how the family who had it wrong in the AITA post were pronouncing it! Haha.
Same here. Especially after working with an Aoife
Same here, I wondered why someone would name a child O-I-Sin? Thanks for clarification.🥴
Polish names are good too. 

Felicja

Fryderyka

Patrycja

It's fun having that background in a place a lot of people don't. We had a polish person join a project recently and I was the only one who didn't bat an eye.
I think the one that blew my mind the hardest was Siobhán. I was reading a book with the main character with that name and finally looked it up and I just stared at the pronunciation for a while lol.
Google is wrong. It's pronounced Uh-sheen (the first syllable is kinda between an "oh" and a "uh" sound)
Thank you!!
I suppose. But don’t you find that when you name a cat something like “catastrophe”, that’s what follows??
Yes!!!!!!     A a ron  killed me.    My hubby and I know an Aaron and he has been A A Ron for about 6 years now.   Dude is a ginger, he thinks it's hysterical.
Funny. I saw Muriel's Wedding when I was young, I think I got it from that.

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-9JVZaNCEPI
×large wet plop×

*Oh, get it, would ya Dear-dree?*
2 faves of theirs: onomatopoeia and synecdoche. 

Oh, and Pho.
