least favourite cameos?
i loved the performances from zooey deschanel, nick offerman, and maya rudolph but adam sandler just makes this episode unwatchable for me. always a skip, or at least fast forwarding through his scenes.
Oh ho...it's a serious movie...

...

Trotsky.
I honestly kind of like the Sandler cameo.  He didn't have a problem being the butt of the joke.  It did feel out of place, but it wasn't bad.

The Zoey Deschanel cameo on the other hand felt like random corporate synergy though.
Not really a Sandler fan, but I liked this cameo. The New Girl one felt way more forced
I really liked this cameo. Not because of Adam Sandler, but because that Kevin James line had me in stitches!
Nah I love this one.
Adam Sandler's cameo felt like he just wandered onto set that day to hang out with his pal Andy Samberg, did a bit of improv, and left.

I'm not a huge fan of the "New Girl" crossover episode.
i love zooey but her cameo in the crossover episode was so underwhelming
Well, Andy is Adams son…
I just want to take some time to appreciate how God damn funny Tim Meadows' guest spot was. 
I liked the Sandler cameo, he understood the assignment.
My two least favorite are Gina Gershon and Nick Cannon. The acting from both was wooden and specifically Melanie Hawkins feels like an unbelievable villain. 

The BEST cameo, for me, is either Patton Oswalt as Fire Marshall Boone or Dennis Haysbert as Agent Bob Anderson. 

Holt: “Was it worth it?”

Bob: “Of course. I made millions. I traveled the world. I’ve eaten whale.”

Holt: “I always assumed whale would be too fatty.”

Bob: “Well, I didn’t have to assume. I know for a fact it is. It’s disgusting. I threw up.”
I don't care for Sandler or his entourages brand of comedy one bit. But Jake absolutely would, and that was a killer joke at Adams expense.
Least favorite? This is my favorite! Especially the "you broke my other leg!" part from Joe Theismann.
> Nick Offerman 

Wait what? Ron Swanson was in B99? Which episode?
My least favorite has to be Neil Degrasse Tyson just casually being revealed as Terry's gym buddy.

Celebrity guests are better when they're either playing a character, or meeting the characters for the first time, why would Terry randomly be friends with a world famous astrophysicist and science communicator?
Not a fan of his movies, but Sandler seems like a decent guy and his presence does not annoy me, especially since it was a good joke imo. With Zoey it felt hamfisted and unnatural, but maybe if I watched New Girl I would appreciate it more
Aww I love the Adam Sandler one. I don’t like the Zooey Deschanel one but I just don’t like her in general.
I really liked that scene. Those guys are buds that have been in a ton of stuff together
Wym I loved this cameo! My least fav is probably the New Girl crossover
My favorite was the Nathan fillion camo, but I'm biased because he is my favorite actor. I also thought the adam sandler one was funny because it was so unexpected and he also started messing with jake.
This was one of my favorites lmao
I actually can't think of a least favorite cameo.

If anyone turns out to secretly be an asshole, then that one. But as far as I know, all the cameos have been pretty solid. Sandler's is probably one of my favourites because he's not even any special one-off side character, he's literally just Adam Sandler in an episode.
JK Simmons and Nick Kroll with an honorable mention to Bill Hader and Sean Astin, and all of them because i feel they were poorly utilized, not because I think they bring the show down. 
What?!?, I love this it’s short and fun. Don’t know why you feel the need to skip it
The Sandler cameo was one of my favorites
no i loved this one ! it was hilarious because it’s SUCH a good joke at his expense, but we know that he must’ve approved the lines beforehand and therefore didn’t get his feelings hurt. it’s a win win
The New Girl crossover episode is weird if you don't watch New Girl.
Honestly, I don't love this cameo either, but this exchange is hilarious.
IIRC, this episode premiered after the Super Bowl, and they needed a big-name guest star to attract viewers.
I personally love the Adam Sandler cameos, but I’m also just bias cause I’m a fan of his.
Nasim Pedrad, Jake's sister.  Terrible
Don't tell me anything about Sandler if you're praising zoey dashanells cameo. 
I just love the way Adam Sandler talks and i just liked listening to him in that scene
Reminds me of the bob saget cameo in half baked
What’s wrong with Sandler and Theisman’s cameo? I thought they were hilarious
I liked this cameo a lot, shows that goes self aware and not afraid to make fun or himself. I respect him a lot, he clearly makes a lot of movies just to have fun with his friends, and I completely get that.
I didn't really dislike this cameo. It felt super out of place but that was the point of it. I was genuinely taken aback by it. They even made fun of him instead of just talking him up which was fun
Oh man, who hates the Adam Sandler cameo, that's a great one 😂
Agent Jack Dong-er
Adam Sandler's cameo is honestly my favorite. I could watch him heckle Jake for hours.
Late to the thread but haven't seen Ed Helms guest star mentioned. Jack Danger and the USPS were a great plotline.
Imagine having a problem with this scene
A 10 second scene makes you skip an episode? That's insane
The New Girl crossover.
I heard Kevin Costner appeared a few times
Well it sure isn't this one. It's great. 

Worst is the New Girl crossover bullshit.

So many good choices for best but the one that stands out for me is Marshawn Lynch. I don't know football and had no idea who he was but seeing Rosa go from star-struck to sick of his constant yapping was beautiful. And then when I learned he's known for refusing to speak to press and pulling antics to technically speak to them without saying anything, I was sold.
I absolutely love this cameo - just so odd
It's like a 12 second bit. Chill.
This scene was funny as hell
Idk i liked it, what’s wrong with that scene?
Jake's comeback is hilarious.
Really? I love this episode because of how out of left field he is. Also, both are SNL alums which makes it another level.
Was this episode released around Uncut Gems? Cuz that's the vibe I'm getting from Sandler and it's great.
Adam sandler its always dressed like almost every movie he’s on
I loved this one! The only other ones that brought me this much joy were Jorma & Avika! And then Adam have worked together so much, and are always confused for each other name wise. I love it.
Honestly adam sandler doesn't seem like a bad guy. He makes shit movies but also some amazing shit from time to time. And even his shit movies are good fun with friends
I thought the Kevin James joke was hilarious
This was a solid cameo wdym
Pete Davidson.
I actually lover Adam Sandler’s cameo😭 I thought it was very random but hilarious
I love this Cameo. Mostly just because it really is just Adam Sandler with no real reason. It’s just the kinda random humour I like. While the other celebrities played characters, Sandler was just himself which kinda made it even better to see him.
The New Girl one was super forced and awkward

This screenshot you posted is hilarious. I love that they did this. Adam and Andy are friends irl.
I love any Sandlerish cameo. Takes me back to You can do it!
I just assumed "thats my boy"
Marshawn Lynch was disappointing. Just one joke that felt forced
Ed Helms character sucked.
I dont know who Marshawn Lynch is, but he's defnintely not an actor
I don’t like the zooey deschanal one.

If you were watching them when they were releasing it, it was touted to be a concurrent crossover on both shows. Not to say there was much hype to it, but as a fan who was watching both shows I was pretty stoked.

The episode was just lazy writing, didn’t even make sense timeline-wise, and didn’t land for me.
I actually consider the self aware dig at his own movies to make this my personal favorite Adam Sandler role in anything.

I don't know if there have been any cameos or guest appearances that I disliked in the show.
I loved all the cameos, especially this one. The fact Adam Sandler is wearing the very casual clothes kills me.
the worst take on the internet today award.
Bad cameos? I don’t know what you’re talking about.
Anyone willing to explain the joke? I dont follow hollywood, but do know all three individuals involved. Is the king of queens in all Sandler's movies or something?
I disagree. I like the cameo a lot
"Hes got this wife that never wears a bra" i love this scene? Weird. Bet you love THAT lame cold open dont you?
Well yeah, if course the tv actors are going to blend into the tv show better than someone like Adam Sandler. Love him or hate him, It's jarring to see him in a tv show for any reason.
Janice from the sopranos being in the prison with Amy was not my favorite. She fit the character, but that actress just bugs me
My least favourite cameo was Gina Rodriguez. Maybe the timing was off in the wedding episode?
Thanks for dressing up!
he is in brooklyn nine nine I want it that way
I loved Adam Sandler here! 

For me,

bad cameos - Eleanor, Marcus (too one-dimensional), Zooey Deschanel (forced), Constantin Kane and Milton Boyle.

good cameos - CJ, Lohank, Fire Marshall Boone, US Marshall Haas, and the Fun Zone manager.

Obviously Pimento, Kevin, Doug Judy are all part of the cast at this point!
Adam Sandler being in it for a single scene ruins an episode for you? Sheesh
This one is great and I usually hate cameos.
Cameo feels solid. People hating on it just want to hate Sandler, but he gets made fun of here and it's not that crazy to run into a celebrity at an auction in NYC.
This is by far the best one!
The movie where he's in space and there's the alien spider thingy was kind of good though
I gotta finish Nine Nine, i think im on season 4 🤣
I feel like this post was "lol we all hate Adam Sandler right guys?"
This isn’t my favorite cameo either, but I do love that Kevin James line by Jake.
Reddit could never pass up an opportunity to shit on Sandler
Still waiting for that movie
Kevin James as Rasputin
Trotsky
My favorite tv trope is when Adam Sandler randomly appears with little build up.
My personal favorite was in the Disney show Jessie.
“Adam Sandler? What are you doing here?” “Waiting for them to play Gangnam style”
Top 5 for sure:

Sterling K Brown - murderer? In “The Box”

Patton Oswald - Fire Marshall Boone 

JK Simmons - Dillman

Dennis Haysbert - FBI Agent Bob Anderson

Maya Rudolph - Marshall Hass

This cannot be argued with I’m afraid!
Aw, I didn't mind the Sandler cameo. It was random, but he was the butt of the joke, and it was quick, so whatever.

Honestly I found the Zooey one worse, even though i like her.
Sandy Amberg! Adam Sandler! Salamander!!
I honestly thought this was a great cameo.  Very meta, but all still humorous.
It’s a crossover! 


… with New Girl. Felt a bit bland and I wish she was a bigger part of the episode because it would’ve been interesting to see Holt and Jake juggle the minor incident of spilling soup compared to catching a criminal.
Zoey Deschanel wasn’t a cameo. That was a crossover episode to promote New Girl.
How does this scene ruin an entire episode for you. I though it was funny, even if I didn’t it didnt last that long
I thought this was alright, it was nice seeing the sandman loose and having fun.
crazy that a random niche scene in a 20 minute episode of a sitcom makes you skip the episode altogether (not judging, been there😭)
Thanks for dressing up by the way
I love his cameo cause I loved “that's my boy”
I see so many posts in this community and other Schurniverse communities that make me question if the odd people are the most outspoken or if I am the odd person. This is one of my favorite scenes. "and on the back just a whole buncha wheat"
I liked the adam sandler cameo, but was it during the time of “thats my boy”?
Exact opposite feelings from me. I love the Sandler cameo. Its a brief moment of him being a caricature  version of himself. Its light and funny and over quick, and im not a big Sandler fan. On the flip side, i LOVE New Girl, but the Zooey cameo feels forced as hell and the writing got noticeably worse.
I didn't love Sean Astins cameo
Sandler is goated
The Zoey Deschanel appearance never made sense to me because of coach not being coach being a canon character in the B99 universe
I actually like Adam Sandler more as a serious actor than a comedy one.
It’s a damn crime, I tells ya! A crime! That they never got Taylor Swift to make a cameo, nor did they have John Mulaney play a detective that was a parody of Det. JJ Bittenbinder. 

A DARN, STINKIN’, DIRTY, ROTTEN, NO GOOD CRIME!
Is Kevin James usually in Adam Sandler movies? I usually think of rob schneider, and a few of the other ones who didn’t get that famous.
But the burn is great
Joe Theisman also made a cameo in this exact same scene where they just made a joke about the only thing he’s known for and it was way worse because he’s not a good actor.
Maybe he was just on set that day and they had an extra minute to kill in the episode
imo very well done was the It's a crossover! scene
Note: Kevin James was scheduled to play the role of Anastasia until production was cancelled due to COVID.
He is such a talented comedian...I mean look at him in these pictures he is the highlight of them...oh and Adam Sandler is here too I guess
I don't hate the cameo, just the fact that these two suck in every movie they both star in (and Sandler in most he is in).
Why no punchline?
Adam was funny - glad he took a hit for the team.
New girl actress has a name guys it’s Zoey D
Unwatchable? Lmfao you have to talk to a therapist and get to the root of that, just nuts
The best part of Adam Sandler (aside from the fact that he continues to cast his friends in his films) is that he KNOWS his movies are not serious. Hence his threat to keep producing movies if he didn’t get an Oscar he would make a movie that was “so bad on purpose” 😂😂
Adam Sandler in any cameo is a good cameo 😂
Marshawn lynch "They forgot my pico de gallo!".
It was weird at first but got a lot funnier when he jumped on stage
Fred Armisen. I can't stand him.
I think they did this because they recently did a movie together ( Tommy boy) and that’s why
The Adam Sandler cameo always confused me. How and why did this need to happen in this random episode? Did he just happen to be in town while they were shooting? Did he owe someone a favor?
I can’t stand this man (Sandler)
I respect that some people might find him funny, I’m just not one of those people
r/murderedbywords
There it is.
Honestly if I were going to cast him in a film about the Russian Revolution I’d pick Trotsky.
Am I alone in being willing to give a comedy about the Russian Revolution a shot? I mean, The Death of Stalin had Steve Buscemi as Nikita Khrushchev and was hilarious!
Ouch, didn’t expect Sandler to give him the axe like that.
I wanna watch that movie SO bad.
Vertical Integration, Lemon.
I watched B99 way before New Girl, and I thought the cameo shouldn’t even be described as a crossover. It’s pointless, adds nothing to the episode, and has no real substance from New Girl. 

Then I watched New Girl and realized that I hadn’t even seen the crossover - it was only really on New Girl, and the Cameo in B99 was just that.
I think it's because it specifically was a cross-over (and they reference that in the dialogue). She wasn't there as Zoey or organically a friend of Andy (where I feel most of the other cameos/Doug Judy recurring characters come from) she was there as Jess to promote New Girl. Way more corporate brand deal, less "I'm a famous buddy here to add something to my famous friend's project"
Crossover episodes always feels alinating to watch if you haven't seen the show that is crossing over.

Sometimes it feels alienating even when you have seen the show that is crossing over.
i hated the zoey deschanel cameo it felt so stupid and forced
I loved the Sandler cameo and Paralta’s come back about Kevin James was awesome and made me laugh.
That "ITS A CROSSOVER" was so cringe it made the whole episode unwatchable for me.
The crossover on the new girl side was more fun. The one that showed up in B99 just felt weird if you didn’t know the show
Also, didnt this cameo happen around the time they were making that movie together? The one where Adam Sandler got raped by his math teacher in middle school, and then she got pregnant with Andy Samberg?
It's a crossover!
Yeah the crossover with the tongue and cheek "haha it's a crossover. Car." Euch, now that's an immersion breaker
Yeah the kevin james joke is good. 

Also the cameo is what, like 45 seconds max?
Well Boyle also had a cameo in new girl.  It was a crossover.  Someone get Mr. Peanutbutter over here.
Always love when celebrities make fun of themselves/don't take themselves too seriously
Yeah, nothing against her but the cameo felt really forced.
Honestly thought that was Melissa Benoist rather than Zoey
Not a cameo, a crossover!
Yeah, he totally was willing to be made fun of, and the Kevin James line was perfect.
It basically was, since it was a crossover with New Girl, it was just poorly done.
Also, Sandler does do serious movies. Or atleast movies that are more then "the dancing clown fell in dooty, let's all laugh at him!" 

You Are So Not Invited to My Bat Mitzvah? It's funny, but it's mostly a coming of age movie about teen girls where he's barely present 

Spaceman? I defy you to laugh at any point.
She is completely awful in New Girl and ruins the 99 episodes she's in.
idk given that a lot of the popular sitcom shows are made by the same people and there are multiple instances of actors appearing on both? 

they're probably all just friends
It’s because the Sandler joke was trying to be funny but the Zoey thing was an attempt at corporate synergization pyradinical integration 
Yeah, OP has fucking terrible taste. The new girl crossover felt so shoehorned but the Adam Sandler interaction was absolutely perfect.
First of all, never bad mouth synergy.
The meme from Zoey’s appearance tho is great material
I agree the B99 episode isn't very good but the New Girl episode is much better.
did NOT like the zooey deschanel one. it didn't flow.

the adam sandler one was hilarious, and I'm not a huge fan of AS. I like him, but I'm not crazy about him, yanno?

absolutely LOVED the SNL cast additions. I can't remember their names 😭 They were perfect.
You should watch the New Girl version of the events. It felt like they actually wanted to do a cross over. She interacts with Gina and Holt on the precinct set. It's pretty good stuff.

Hey also captured Holy and Gina really well. Not sure if they have writers in both rooms.
This is why I hate it. It's basically a cliche for a celebrity to do a cameo and poke fun at themselves in a friendly not-too-harsh kind of way, so audiences go "Wow, that's so cool they were willing to laugh at themselves, they're so cool!" Works very well at humanizing these monsters. 
Zooey was the worst part of new girl and the worst part of that episode. I used to think she was this quirky indie girl that did acting, which I really liked. The more I learned about her as a person, the more unwatchable she became. She broke my man Ben Gibbard’s heart after he already came up with all the best lines about breakups.
The Sandler cameo was also the first season and I believe one of the first 3 episodes. I think it was also meant as a blessing to legitimize the show in its early days. Andy Samberg was great on SNL and the Lonely Island but Sandler is a much bigger name. I remember watching it when it aired and wondering how many SNL alums would later do cameos and while I was already sold on the show, it did make me more intrigued for more. 

Vanessa Bayer, Nasin Pedrad (which really muddies the continuity the New Girl Crossover) and off course Maya Rudolph. I’m sure there are many others as well.
I love New Girl and got kinda excited to see her in B99, but the cameo felt too forced
I don't really watch his movies, but he doesn't seem like an insufferable twat. On the "would you have lunch with this celebrity" scale, he's a "sure, sounds fun."
The B99 side was a weird short bit. The New Girl side was much better integrated with the plot imo.
The spinoff made more sense in the New Girl storyline imo
Funny thing is I despise Adam Sandler movies, always have, but just recently my friend and I were browsing for a movie to watch, she chose some recently released sci-fi movie that didn’t seem very promising and we started watching.  
  
It literally was not until we were 1/3 through the movie that I realized the lead character was played by Adam Sandler. I somehow didn’t recognize him despite the movie having a heavy focus on his character. He actually almost completely disappeared into his role. The movie was surprisingly good as well. So I guess I no longer despise Adam Sandler movies.  
  
Edit: movie is Spaceman (2024).
My opinion on Sandler: his movies are either amazing or awful and there is no in between.
I loved the new girl one though because it worked both ways. Like it or not, I can’t think of another show that’s done that, which makes it even more special!
…Trotsky
That’s kinda why I love this cameo - he just ran into a famous dude by coincidence
Zoey felt stiff to me I can’t stand her character it seems fake to me
I also hate the New Girl crossover. I love both shows individually but the crossover was so unnecessary and lazily done. It was also really weird because they aren’t filmed in the same style at all.
Still think it should’ve been Nick and Schmidt with Charles and Jake.
I feel like that's kinda why it worked.  That's pretty much the same reaction I would have if I saw the Sandman at a fine arts auction.  Like he just wandered in there was just Adam Sandler.
I honestly love this comment. This makes so much sense too.
"It's a crossover!"  - Jess
I honestly feel like the crossover idea was pushed hard from somewhere high up while everyone actually working on the shows hated it.  So they purposely made it as shitty as possible and/or spent as little time and energy on it as possible while still fulfilling the network requirements.  Hence why it felt so stiff and awkward.
The new girl cameo breaks the universe continuum, Jake's sister is also a cop in NG and a crazy person in B99
I would’ve loved it if it were a different set of characters from the two shows. Like Nick or Schmidt with Charles and Jake. I dunno but if it’s gonna be Zoe, she should’ve interacted with Amy or Holt. Just a different mixture.
Nonono, Andy is Mark Whalberg son. Sandler is his adoptive father.

Say "hi" to your mother for me, alright?
Han Solo Berger.
WASSAAAAAAAAAAAP!!!!
Don't come near me or I WILL try to eat you.
Tim meadows is an underrated, underappreciated comedy legend.
Yessssss, thank you i have been waiting for someone to say this!!
Timmy Meadows is great in everything he's in!
Oswalt has one of my favorite line deliveries in the whole show: “New York’s finest? That sounds like what my mother calls her china! and and - she’s dead - so let’s tread lightly on the response”
Oswalt does \*such\* a good job as Boone
Does Gina Gershon and Nick Cannon qualify as cameos? They were in multiple scenes in multiple episodes. Adam Sander was in one brief scene because he’s just a famous guy - that’s a cameo. 

Personally, I thought both Gina and Nick were good. And I otherwise can’t bare Nick Cannon. 
But first, let's hug like men.
*Annderson
I like Gershon as Hawkins, but I agree she felt like an unbelievable villain. They needed one hell of a deux ex machina to get out of that case. Which, in fairness, played out excellently through the season.  

I don't know to best say it. A good villain has to appear to win, the stakes have to feel important. But sometimes it's just FRUSTRATING. I less wanted to see Hawkins taken down and more just wanted to get on with it and move on. She was sooooo many steps ahead at all times it became a bit eye rolling
I recently realized Fire “Marshall Boone” is a tribute to the producer
I'm not sure they count as cameos. Aren't they just actors cast as characters?
Its cool that Marshall Boone is the name of of one of the staff of the show and also that you get both the old and new Allstate commercial actors in the same show.
He makes millions making movies with his friends. Even if the movies are mostly trash you can't really hate the guy for it. Plus he does genuinely have talent when he tries. Punch drunk love, uncut gems, and spaceman prove that. People just forget about those movies after his next comedy comes out.
I've never seen the show, just here cuz of /r/all, and that 1 liner is a banger.
This was supposed to be a safe event!
He plays Holts ex boyfriend, the birthing doctor in the thanksgiving episode where Terrys wife goes into labor in the precinct.
He plays Frederick, Holt's ex-boyfriend with the wooden duck. Season 3 ep 8.
He had a bit of a wooden duck situation, He knew Holt disliked the duck because of its weak beak but insisted on displaying it anyway.

Holt may have accidentally dropped it and/or intentionally pushed it off a bridge and with it their relationship ended.

  
[https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ez9LQ8uPB-s](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ez9LQ8uPB-s)
season 3 episode 8, ava. it's the one where terry's wife gives birth. fun fact, he is also the voice that says FREMULON at the end of the episodes!
Eh, i still love his First reaction tho

Something like

"HOLY SHIT, IS THAT NEIL DEGRASSE TYSON?! YOU'RE ROCKING IT!"
I guess? Honestly I like the ones where they just seem like regular people because, well, they are.
Because Neil Degrasse Tyson *is* a big gym buff, and Terry loves intellectuals. Terry was actually hitting it off with everyone at Holt's bday party
Pretty sure NDT was a wrestler in high school and college and there's pictures of him in his youth being ripped.
>why would Terry randomly be friends with a world famous astrophysicist and science communicator

That never even occurred to me, because the answer is "the gym". Nobody is famous or special in a good gym, it's a great leveler - you're all there to do the same work and help each other to get it done.
Sandler is known to be an asshole. During Billy Madison, he was legitimately pegging those kids with the dodgeballs and made them cry
And I'm not interested.... I find people confusing and weird. I live my life by numbers, how many calories do you think I burned walking from there to here. You female closest to me.
I loved all of their roles. The focus was meant to be on the main cast, so their parts weren’t really in your face. 

*Jake and Boyle high five*

Kendrick: Oh, cool trick. I don’t have a ton of time to practice high-fiving.

*Kendrick and another agent no-look high-five*

Jake: You just made fun of us for that. 

Kendrick: For practicing. That’s the first time we ever tried it.
Yeah. Bill Hader’s cameo was a huge disappointment. Love him but he went super broad with this role and he comes across like a cartoon, even by B99 cameo standards.

Huge swing and a miss imo.
Really? I thought Simmons' guest role as Dillman was a highlight of the show. Dillman imo is a legendary episode.

Agree on Hader and especially Astin though. What a waste of Sam Gamgee.
Sean Astin for me because, if you recognize him before the reveal in that episode, it gives away most of the plot ahead of time. Like...did you bring in Sam Gamgee to play a background character? Of course not.
couldn't agree more. hader and kroll are some of my favourites but i was let down by their character and episode plot lines. /: what a waste of talent!
Oh yes definitely. For such big names, their cameos storyline felt… flat. Like, it could been executed by any c tier actors.
I’m a serious person always cracks me up
USPIS!
I think it’s to promote their movie, “that’s my boy” or whatever it was called.
Yeah I don't like that episode.
He was only there so he don't get fined
Thanks for dressing up by the way
He is in most of them. Adam Sandler and Kevin James are friends, Adam Sandler usually does movies with his friends.
the scene is unfunny and unpleasant to me ¯\_(ツ)_/¯ potato tomato
i love adam sandler as a person and in other projects, didn't know i needed that disclaimer lol. he was just unlikeable in this episode ¯\_(ツ)_/¯
They’ve collaborated together on at least 14 movies.
*It was weird at first*

*But got a lot funnier*

*When he got on stage*

\- Steelizard

---

^(I detect haikus. And sometimes, successfully.) ^[Learn&#32;more&#32;about&#32;me.](https://www.reddit.com/r/haikusbot/)

^(Opt out of replies: "haikusbot opt out" | Delete my comment: "haikusbot delete")
He's got a wife that doesn't wear a bra... I think you're gonna like it :)
Or in a death of Stalin Prequel.
I'd be down for it. Death of Stalin is my favourite movie!
It is impossible for me to understand how that movie could possibly be as smart and funny as it is while still retaining a sense of the actual stakes.
There is a tv show that I think fits this bill, but I cannot for the life of me remember what it's called currently
I'm sort of dissapointed that this wasn't an ad for an upcoming ~~meeting~~ movie.
Badum tss!
A great innovention. That's a word I just innovented.
Listen up fives, a ten is speaking.
You mean product integortion?
vertical integortion. 

integortion?!
Synergyyyy
It's also weird cause Jake's dirty ex partner is also a recurring character by the name of Coach on New Girl
I saw new girl waaaay before B99 and I hated that crossover episode for an age. I made my husband watch it NG episode so he’d see both viewpoints and afterwards he said, “we won’t be doing that again.”
It honestly might be one of the worst cross overs in TV history.
I've never watched New Girl, only B99, and had no idea that episode was meant to be a cameo/crossover.
Doug Judy is in New Girl?!?!
Geet-ar
New Girl and B99 ran back to back on Fox at the time so it was kinda almost like an hour long combo episode
It was such a missed opportunity.
I‘ve never watched New Girl so it took until now to realize that that was meant to be a crossover.
The cameo felt weird, but admittedly the joke was pretty good and became a solid meme
i like all of these characters and it was a joy to see them in every configuration 🤷🏻‍♀️
Nope, that was a few years before B99 even launched.
> The one where Adam Sandler got raped by his math teacher in middle school, and then she got pregnant with Andy Samberg

That is such a shitty sounding movie I couldn't believe it was real. It is. *That's My Boy* (2012) is the movie.
No part of me is happy that I know this movie exists. I hope by tomorrow I've forgotten again.
I believe so.
I think if they looked into the camera when she said that, the joke would have worked better.  I know B99 isn't a 4th wall breaker, but if they did it once, it would be okay.
Yeah.  Sandler being there felt somewhere between the SNL alum thumbs up and him just happening to be nearby that day.

Zoey on the other hand felt like an order came down from Fox to cross promote for greater brand synergy.
And it coulda been anyone. Super generic for what they had to work with.
It's a crossover!
That's on us, we set the bar too low
I thought that was a commercial made for the "crossover" they got into.
I’ve read somewhere that he is apparently a great person in general and quite humble, of course you never know but still contrasts with most celebrities which seem to be idiots out of touch with reality
From what I've gathered the only person he tries to annoy is his neighbour, Conan O'Brien.
The comedies he stars in were never my cup of tea, but Spaceman touched me.
Try watching Uncut Gems, completely changed my opinion of him as an actor

In the words of Jake, ‘Dude’s got range’
I would posit that Click is in between. It's not *Uncut Gems*, but it's not completely meritless either.
Sandler is also from NY, so it makes it slightly plausible
Being set in New York, B99 could've had way more cameos than they did with famous people just being themselves. The fact that it was pretty rare like this episode I think shows the writers knew better than to overuse that joke.
New Girl was a fantastic show despite her presence on it. Haha
It was so lazy. The plot sucked in both crossover eps.
Schmidt and Charles would both bond over a very odd thing like a rare $500 shampoo that they both prefer to be massaged in by a girlfriend because (speaking in unison) its the most intimate activity to do with someone. Schmidt pauses..."are you the guy who runs the food blog?" (Nick: "Why do you follow a new York food blog? You live in LA" Jake: "Beantown, am I right?" Nick: "You said it")

Nick sees Terry comment on the mess of Jake's desk and acts as though its totally normal.  "it's drawer chili. Whats the problem?"
In the New Girl episode of the crossover, Nick and Winston end up entertaining Charles and Nikolaj in the subway when they're "busking" to make enough money to get back to the rest of the group. IMO that was wayyy more fun than any of Jess's interactions in the B99 episode.
jess does interact with jake, holt and gina.
Hey goat, it's good to see you, I like your beard.
Mark Whalberg the hate crime guy?
Was uncle Vanny Vanilla Ice this whole time?
lmao I love Patton.  I can hear the delivery so perfectly.
The Peralata/Boyle/Boone trio is just too good
Careful about my mom, she’s dead. 
The delivery is just so perfect
Oswalt is always great
I think you're right. I would say they would be considered guest stars, not cameos.
I would say my working definition of cameo here is a loose one for sure
Shit good shout
I’m stretching the boundaries of “cameo” for sure
Honestly with Adam Sandler, I do enjoy watching his movies despite them not being great. For example pixels, it is great cinema no, do I enjoy it yes because I love retro stuff and seeing a movie around retro games was great despite its short comings. I think the key is to treat his movies as a reddit post, most likely it's just a shitpost
>you can't really hate the guy for it.

You would be amazed at what you can accomplish when you embrace the dark side.
honestly .... Hubie Halloween was not bad
Spaceman was good. I mean, weirdly good. The spider was phenomenal, and Adam playing a Russian cosmonaut just worked.
Bro that scene in Click with his dad really got me. Hrs got chops when he goes for it.
Joe! I Videoed it!
Frederick, the duck guy. 

Hot damn, I had no idea it was Offerman. Now seeing it, it's like how did I even miss it lol
He's a wood worker even in the Good Place
It was a mallard.
well he didn't have a wooden duck, hence the issue
Thanks <3
>he is also the voice that says FREMULON at the end of the episodes!

Wait.... What .....  How?

 Is there some story behind  this?
“Physics, Terry”
“DAMN, NEIL DEGRASSE TYSON! HOW ARE YOU DOING THAT?”
"oh..umm..3..?"
Eh I think it works because he’s not even then for a full episode. He’s memorable despite not even being on screen for full 30 minutes
>Dillman imo is a legendary episode.

Interesting, from that statement I know everything about you as a person.
It seems like we have a "who has done this" on our hands.

The Dillman Double Back is also amazing. "He actually said the words! Oh, what a treat!"
No way Kroll is born to be the annoying antagonist and he delivered
When he got the Mark Twain award, there were a lot of jokes about his friends being out of work so he could accept the award.
https://screenrant.com/adam-sandler-kevin-james-best-movie-collaborations/

Found out why I don’t know any. Most are Sandler producing James’s movies and the collab ones are after I stopped watching Adam Sandler movies in like 2006 or so haha
i love adam sandler.
So… Life of Stalin?
Would absolutely fucking adore a black comedy about the Czech legion in the Russian Civil war. 

Basically got stuck in Russia by accident then became armed train conductors and a massive factor in the war.
it would make for a killer tv show mokumentary style.
>*”Nod as I'm speaking to you. People are looking to me for reassurance, and I have no idea what's going on.”*
"When I said 'no problem' what I meant was 'No. . . Problem.' Ignore me."
Nvm I think I may have been thinking of History of the World Part 2
The third heat
It will innoventually be used in every corporate meeting room
I'm reagening
America! Which i invented
I’m an eleven, but continue.
10… at best a nine nine
Racial Integration?  No that's not it
No, that’s Button Classic©️
Lol and Coach moved to and lives in NYC at this time.
And Jake’s sister is another recurring character, winston’s partner/gf for the final season
I'd agree based solely on the shitty visuals. It's so obvious they were never in the same room together (in the New Girl episode)
Bones and Sleepy Hollow would like a word.
Worse than the Simpsons/Family Guy one, where they just stapled Simpsons art and voices into Family Guy?
Oh, no, sorry! (Or maybe, I have no idea) I meant Craig Robinson is a friend of Andy Samberg, so his cameos felt more organic because it's not promoting a show.
No but he’s in killing it which more people should watch on peacock so it gets another season
Let’s not mention the Coach/Stevie weirdness
that must’ve seemed like such a weird scene if you didn’t know who she was lmao
It's a crossover!

SUV
I'd never seen New Girl so the whole rant about soup left me wondering what was up with the crazy woman in the middle of the episode.
It's weird how it was executed.

The New Girl cross over is almost like an episode of B99. Every character from New Girl interacts and does things with characters from B99. Like, a quarter of the episode is in the precinct

The crossover for B99 was a single scene with 1 joke. It's bizarre.
Just gonna put this out there for you, New Girl is insanely funny.
New Girl rocks, funny enough Zoeys character is the least fun of the group.
I watched an episode of New Girl. The guys are all shitheads and act like it's normal. Fuck that.
Same. I just thought it was a weird joke.
The meme is worth the whole scene Imo
And his bride to be is sleeping with her brother, yeah its pretty rough
Mhm. Really steer into it rather than sheepishly explain it
Yeah, I only learned from this thread that it was a tie-in and not just a cameo from Deschanel like this one from Sandler.
What is this? A cross-over episode? \~Sad Dog
I don't know if I am allowed to tell the full story (where this happened and everything, so I'll be vague), but a buddy of mine is very close friends with one Sandler's friends. Sandler was doing a live show and a bunch of his friends attended, so my buddy got to tag along and go see the show. He gets to go backstage and meet everyone, then they all decide they're hungry and want to go grab some food and drinks. 

My buddy and his friend get to the restaurant. One of the guys owned it, so he had closed it down and sent everyone home but kept a couple of bartenders behind.

My buddy said he's just drinking and talking with Allen Covert when all of the sudden the kitchen door swings open.

Sandler comes walking out with a kitchen apron on. He's holding some tongs and starts asking everyone how they like their burgers cooked. My buddy tells him and he goes "alright, you got it" and walks back into the kitchen, then comes out with a bunch of hamburgers for everyone.

I don't know why I love this story as much as I do, but it really is one of the many that I've heard about him that makes me respect him so much.
he makes most of his movies just as a means of giving his friends jobs. surprised that anyone would think he was a bad person just because he makes bad movies. I guess its because people see movies as more of an artsy thing but really the vast majority of films are factory line just like Sandler's movies.
The guy makes millions having fun making dumb movies with his friends and people hate the guy for it.   Then every once in a while he makes a great one because he’s actually really talented, but people immediately forget that when he makes another stupid one.  I doubt he thinks those ones are masterpieces simply because we’ve seen what he can do when the movie isn’t a 2 hour fart joke.
And Conan loves it.
He's from NH and lives in CA now
Max really kills on new girl, and Lamorne is amazing from start to finish.
Which is funny because she was primarily a film star and not a television star. She was also the most well known and had the most credits of the cast when the show started. However, the other cast members are the main reason to watch. Nick, Schmidt, Coach, and Winston are comedy gold.
It made me fall for Jake Johnson/Nick Miller
I’ve never seen it 💀
WOW thank you I totally forgot. I haven’t done a new girl rewatch since I finished B99 this year and now I’m so disappointed in myself. It’s crazy how I didn’t even think about that.
Always has been.
the three of them with their own show, either as B99 characters or others would be so good
This dark side sounds kinda pathetic. What happened to the cool laser swords? What befell your empire to be left as lowly internet trolls?
I also enjoyed The Week of...

  
I mean, it wasn't great by any stretch. But a harmless time filler with Rock and  Sandler having fun doing their thing.
Honestly, none of his movies are actually that bad. They usually end up being kind of sweet in the end too
Hubie Halloween was fucking great. First movie since probably Happy Gilmore and Mr Deeds I really enjoy from Sandler.
If he didn’t have that stupid voice that would’ve been a way better film. I actually still enjoyed it tbf
Fremulon!
That is a bit odd that u missed that, but it must help with immersion to not always be picking out who is playing everyone lol
[deleted]
I have a wooden duck situation
it was definitely not a mallard, the head colouring is all wrong. it more closely resembles a canada or cackling goose. big bird nerd and brooklyn 99 nerd lol
Fremulon is Michael Shure's (the showrunner for Parks and Rec) production company.
no idea, maybe just connections? fremulon also worked on parks and rec and offerman has the best voice to say fremulon
and tbf that joke only works if you know he's a physicist so i think it's okay.,
"Physics Terry"
WRONG! Try 0.8, numbnuts!
That’s why he’s The Douche
Simon the Devious is one of my favourite parts of WWDITS, solely because he nails it so well
Grown Ups is so much fun. Everyone is so harsh about it, but it was just him and his mates getting paid a shit load to have fun. People take him way too seriously.
Death of Lenin?
In Russia, movie of Life only deals with Death.
No, the Death of Stalin: Prequel, garbage movie, too much death and mayhem. Plus the plot sucks, dude goes from being a secretary to running everything? Unrealistic. 

The movie you’re thinking of is Post Credits: Life of Stalin. 
I'm gonna have to report this conversation. Threatening to do harm or obstruct any member of the Presidium in the process of-

Look at your fockin face!
Shut it down!
The trivection oven, Lemon. It’s the greatest achievement in countertop cooking appliances since they added the popcorn button to the microwave
It needs a ham button.
Classic Lemon.
Coach having secretly joined the NYPD under a false name after the pilot, left, moved back to the loft, gone back to NYC, rejoined the NYPD, and become dirty is absolutely not out of character for him
And the coroner dated Nick!!
Is a character in the plot really considered a cameo just because you know who the actor is?
Ahhh. Thank you!
I love that show. I’ve watched it several times. It’s fucking great.
Yes absolutely…
It was super weird.
I've seen this series multiple times and I have no idea what episode you guys are talking about. I'm guessing it's the girl driving the SUV that peralta commandeeres? Yeah, I have no idea who zoe deschanel is.
"Your serve and protects extends to my soup" like what the hell was that
Yup. She’s still kinda funny, but everyone else is hilarious (except CiCi I guess). 

It’s a shame because NG does cameos well (Bearclaw was my favorite) but the B99 episode wasn’t an example of that
They should have gone hard.  "It's not a car, it's a crossover..."  Look into the camera.  Hold for a 3 count.  And Samberg ends it by saying "Thursday nights on Fox."
This is why I really think it was an awful crossover.  Generally a crossover is a way to get audiences at least a little bit interested in the other show.  But the New Girl/B99 crossovers are so poorly done that fans of one don't even know the crossover happened.

In the New Girl episode all that happens is some stuff with Doyle and if you didn't already know who that character was you'd have no idea it was a crossover. 

Absolute bungle from a writing point of view.
No it's Schmidt's Mom's car, it's a crossover.
After seeing Punch Drunk Love, I realized Adam Sandler is actually a good actor?! And I've been talking trash about him since Click
Yeah most of his movies suck but who cares? Who wouldn’t take his career? Getting flown all over the world to get paid to hang out with your goofiest homies and then once a decade dropping an Oscar worthy performance? Imo he’s got it all figured out
Tbf there's way more reason than just bad movies. He's very happy to punch down with his jokes, with a lot of them boiling down to "this person is different, lets laugh" and that's it
Uncut Gems hit me out of nowhere. I mean it was almost Oscar good.
He was born in Brooklyn and went to NYU. Yeah he lives in CA now, but who says he doesn't visit or have family still in NYC
Emmy award winner Lamorne! 🏆
On one level you’re not missing much, but the three male leads have some great chemistry.
You should absolutely watch it, it's fantastic
Well my sister tried showing me an episode or 2 but Zoey’s acting just seems fake to me the entire time and she tries too hard to be awkward and funny the only one I tolerate though is the roommates their pretty funny
It's a great show and people are vastly over-hating on Zoey Deschanel.
Jess also interacts with Gina and Holt in the New Girl episode
Wassssaaaaaaaap
Yeah, we misread the manual. Turns out we've been working on mastering the dork side. On the plus side, I'm a really prestigious dork.
If people are able to unclutch their pearls and remove the sticks from their asses, Thats my boy is fucking hilarious, and I will die on that hill.
Not a doctor.
I kinda get lost within the plot lol 

I hardly notice that there's someone "I know" playing a role. 

Like until very recently, I didn't notice Joanna Newsom played a part in the last Halloween episode lol
Flashbacks to younger Holt, Kevin and Offerman would've been fun in S8 as part of their break up story.
Holt would be proud
You like Sesame Street and B99? Me too
Perhaps it's meant to be a blue winged teal.
Makes sense 

>offerman has the best voice to say fremulon

Agreed. 

Second best option would be Rex B-oo-king-hame though
New York Citaaaay
A lot of his movies that have gone direct to Netflix get a lot of snobbery hate.

You know what you’re getting, they are perfectly serviceable movies. They’re not trying to win awards, they’re there to turn your brain off and sensibly chuckle every so often
It’s Grown Ups 2 that’s the real travesty
Honestly that movie is a guilty pleasure for me.
I bet redditors would pay a fuck lot of money to have this made with similarly high qualities. Count me in!
favorite fact about isaac’s portrayal of zhukov, that i bring up at every opportunity, is that the costume department actually put fewer medals on his jacket than zhukov actually wore. they figured if they went with the real amount, audiences would think it was even campier than it already was.
I’m smiling… *but I am very fucking furious.*
We've recreated the Honda element
Hayum!
I thought the same thing. I wish this was canon
Who? Who? Just say Waitress.
In my original comment, I called him a "reocurring character" which might be more apt.
The soup thing was *so awkward* and just went on *so long*. I still don't know if soup is an inside joke from New Girl like it is on Seinfeld or what.
i can only assume they were going to do more and they couldn't get the script or maybe evne the schedules to line up properly.

Because it's weird. It's so little of a crossover that i don't mind it. Like Jake just gets out of the car after a few min and that's it? Like if it wasn't told to me by people on reddit i'd have no idea it was one.
[deleted]
he’s great in uncut gems
You should check out spaceman on Netflix. I put it on thinking it was going to be a silly Adam Sandler movie that I could listen to in the background but they played it super straight and it was really deep. It’s primarily just Sandler by himself along with “something” else and he does super well. He really makes the movie feel empty in the way that he’s all alone up on the space station with no other humans.
It's almost like everyone forgot uncut gems man
He moved to NH at age 6 and lived there until going to college
His parents live in NH and has done a few graduation speeches at a highschool in Manchester, NH (I grew up 30 mins away from that high school), but I didn't know he lived in NY till he was 6. Fair enough!
Lamorne? I think you mean Winston Bishop a.k.a Winnie the Bish a.k.a.k.a Prank Sinatra!
I want to see if I can remember their names Winston? Or Wilson idk..Schmidt? I think that’s the guy with the high pitched voice and Nick who has the low voice but is like somewhat paranoid all the time?
I trust you the only episode I’ve seen was when Jessie moved into their apartment after breaking up on her cheating boyfriend and I think Schmidt or Nick slapped him with his ring still on and I couldn’t stop laughing cause that literally caught me off guard
I don’t mind Zooey in other stuff; I just find the character of Jess unenjoyable. I tried to get into New Girl, liked the roommates and her friend ok, but I found Jess too annoying to get past and gave up.
This is the reason for the rule of two
I watched it recently for the first time and I agree. I like most of his movies though.
The one with Samberg? That one was not awful, bit dated though with some of its jokes..
That's going to be a noisy hill.
Shh
Shhh
I love that for you, legit.  I'm the nerd going 'OH, that's so and so from that other show, it was before this event so they still have that haircut etc and ngl, it's tiring and takes away from some of the fun
It’s especially funny cause it’s Andy’s irl wife. Both Amy and Jake had their real spouses be on the show while married to each other in it
Champagne. Mountain range. Hugs. *Fremulon.*
Because of that episode I now always pronounce it as 'Mannahatta' 😂😂
I'm just a regular human bartender
When will people realise there is a genre for just chilling with your mates and watching some dumb goofy movie.
Murder mystery movies are “great” as in they are dumb fun movies that are perfectly enjoyable and my wife and I can watch them half asleep.
Not every movie needs to be award bait, some can just be fun, and Sandler delivers with that.p
I recently watched You Are So Not Invited to My Bat Mitzvah on Netflix and really enjoyed it! It’s not just Adam Sandler but his whole damn family, lol. It was entertaining, which is really all I ask from the media I consume *for entertainment*.
I really love Hubie Halloween. It's not a "great" movie by any means, but it nails the Halloween vibe and it's just a good stupid, fun movie.
I loved You're So Not Coming to My Bat Mitzvah, but I also related so I can't tell if I'm biased. (Grew up in a largely reform Jewish upper middle class town.) I feel like they did a good job with middle school drama.
Movies aren't allowed to be fun anymore. I'm personally not a big fan of Sandlers stuff these days, but I also get the point of them. Feels like every movie these days is either part of a huge IP or is something dark or overly serious.  The days of releasing movies that are just 90 minutes of enjoyment that you quote for a while and move on are gone.
Some of them have been overtly racist, so...

And saying 'turn your brain off to enjoy' is such a weird phrase to defend mediocre/shit movies that don't compare to his older line up
I still love that one too. It’s not as good, but still fun.
Yea I knew about that lol. It was also an insanely heavy amount of metal. 

Zhukov had so many medals that Issacs might have had to wear a cardboard sheet under there if they went with all of them. 

My favourite fact about this film is that it offended the Kremlin so much that it was banned in Russia, Kazakhstan, and Kyrgyzstan
What's a war hero got to do to get some lubrication around here?!!
But let's hear it from Jazz, the black transformer
Pontiac Aztec
Honda are very interested
Yeah Winston, Nick, and Schmidt.
EXACTLY!! like if I have to watch new girl? Which I might cause it’s my little sister’s favorite sitcom ever I’ll just tune Jessie out lmao
🎵🎵Tu na na🎵🎵
Sure, but you can still have better or worse movies within that.

My friends like action movies a lot. Some are really great - not clever, just great action. And some are crappy.
Exactly.

People were shitting on the Holmes and Watson movie with Will Ferrell but you had to know what to expect with Will Ferrell, it was supposed to be a silly movie. His shtick isnt "serious movies"
I mean that's fine but we're not bad people for finding it unentertaining. I dislike most Adam Sandler movies not because I'm some snooty film snob but because they don't make me laugh.
We stupidly love Hubie Halloween for all the throwbacks Sandler drops in
Death of Stalin you say? I’ll have to give it a watch, thanks bros
Does he really talk like that?
It’s a crossover!
Thank you! I like Nick the most 😂 from what I’ve seen does that show have character development like Brooklyn 99?
And sometimes Coach!
I went in expecting a regular Will Ferrell movie with Holmes and Watson and could not finish it. It was just so bad. The “comedy” was so forced and just not funny. I’m a huge Will and John fan but that one just wasn’t it
For my money, Winston has the best character development of any modern sitcom. Schmidt and Nick are both no slouch either. Zooey's character kinda gets worse, but it's still a top-tier show in my opinion.
It skewed a little more traditional sitcom than 99 did, which is to say the jokes are more important than the character development. There is some though because it was on for awhile.
Definitely recommend it as a huge fan of B99. Like the other commentor said, the guys carry the show for the most part. There is character development, but unfortunately some regression as well since it *is* a standard sitcom. The creator loved Friends therefore taking inspiration from it and you can tell, but it's much less frustrating on rewatches
Now thinking about Winston’s development and how he becomes LAPD… now that would’ve been the crossover.
Yes, all three of those guys are excellent characters! The show has so so stories but it sure is funny
Oh that’s good! Also Andy Samberg action comedy movie got greenlit yesterday 😭😭😭💖💖💖 I’m so happy! The script writer who wrote it worked on Shang Chi in a sense Jake Peralta is slowly coming back 😭😭😭😭
Terry Crews: "Can't Believe You're Gone So Soon"
"Can’t believe you’re gone so soon. I’m honored to have known you, laughed with you, worked with you and shared 8 glorious years watching your irreplaceable talent. This hurts. You left us too soon. You taught me so much. I will be forever grateful for the experience of knowing you. Thank you for your wisdom, your advice, your kindness and your friendship. Deepest condolences to your wife and family in this difficult time. You showed me what a life well lived looks like.

Rest In Peace, Andre. I love you, man. 😢❤️"
Nine Nine
Rest in peace captain dad🪦❤️

Knowing you’re not there to make new memories is horrible but it makes me even more grateful for what we already got with you!
Fuck.

I want to say something as an elder millennial that you all might not completely grasp. Holt was a gay man that wasn't "stereotypically gay" for TV. And he was just a guy who happened to be gay. And that was very important to our culture to help people understand that being gay wasn't bad, offensive, or even Left Wing political. He was a straight laced, married, cop who happened to be gay.

It was a heavy lift, and he did it.
As a fan of FRIENDS and Brooklyn Nine Nine, these last few months have devastated me.
Im devastated
I was watching Brooklyn 99 captain holt’s wedding when I got the notification on my phone. I’m absolutely in tears right now I can’t believe this happened :(
UGH, I feel like I'm gonna cry when or if the cast writes goodbyes, but I'm sure right now they are crying their eyes out.
I can't believe this is how I found out.

Rest in peace, captain dad.
oh captain my captain
This is how I found out & my heart actually dropped. Such a loss.
Rest in Peace Captain. NINE-NINE
My heart hurts.

Paaaiiin
I was hoping for one off season Halloween Heist episode but I guess thats never happening now.
Nine nine! 

Rest in peace Captain.
###I have no words…

Thank you, Andre, for one of the best surrogate Captain Dad’s… 

EVER.

NINE NINE. 😢

Rest in Peace, Andre and thank you. 🙏🏼
I was having my breakfast when I found it. I could not eat or speak. I sat there numb. Perhaps, others will think it dumb but there is absolutely no way I can convey how much the character of Captain Raymond Holt has taught me. Not a day goes by when I do not remember his beautiful line to Rosa about acceptance and a beautiful world.

I hope we live forward with his legacy.
Rest in peace, you beautiful beautiful man.

P.S: May you get all the rubber bands in heaven. 💙
Devastated by this news. RIP Robot Captain/Bayard Ellis/New York Times editor. Nine Nine!
:( :( my tv dad.
At first I thought it was trolling post until I read comments.

Goodbye beep bop zep. Captain
I am literally literally heartbroken
He was such a great actor and was always my favorite character in whatever he was in. This is one of the actors I am going to miss.
Wtf he passed?! What happened and when!?
Nine-Nine! 🫡

Rest in peace, Captain Dad
Respect. Rest in peace. One of the best actors. Nine-nine!
Nine nine rest in peace Captain Holt 😞🥺
Ugh! This hurts😭
RIP Captain Dad #NINENINE🙏🏽
"Nein! Nein!" Can't believe this is happening in German. Only the good die young. Rest in perfect peace and thanks for the laughter!
Terry, please, get a hold of yourself. This must be very embarrassing for you.

Best regards, 
Captain Raymond Holt
Oh no!!!
Thank you for your service, Captain Dad
Whaattt 🥺
Nine Nine!
Came here to pay my respects
An amazing talent and such a versatile actor - you will be missed - god speed friend 🙏
nine nine !
NINE NINE
#ninenine killed me
To Andre Braugher: Earth has lost a great man, but paradise has gained a new angel 😔😢

# NINE NINE !!!
NINE NINE!!!!!!!! 😭😭😭
Andre Braugher's acting made me go through tough days so much easier. I will remember his performances fondly. Rest in peace, Captain Dad, know you made us smile and laugh a lot! ❤️
Nine-nine
One of my all time favorite actors, so devastated by this.  RIP you beautiful legend.
Because I'm a chowderhead, I didn't even know that he played the smart kid in Glory. Fucking awesome actor, big sad.
To the 99th precinct. I feel condolences are in order.
Whaaaat? This is how I find out!? I mean they're great words and all from Terry, but damn man, why'd it have to be under a post about [sexy nsfw legs](https://www.reddit.com/r/comics/s/ohFznqtpM3).

First Matthew Perry and now this. Shit end to the year. Of course I never knew him in person, but he was always me and my mom's favorite actor from Nine Nine. It was one of the few shows we both could watch and laugh at together and when I go home for Christmas we're definitely going to watch some nine nine. Thank you for the laugh, absolute legend!
nine nine! 💔🕊️
NEIN NEIN!!!

wieso muss das sein...??
Sleep tight Velvet Thunder , see you on the other side 
Nine Nine
"don't let black lives matter, turn into black lives better"

Terry "meathead" Crews
[removed]
[removed]
I’m so fucking heartbroken. I’m actually so sad about this 💔
Nine Nine
Oh my God WHAT?
Nine nine
What???? No.... This can't be true..
I remember him for “men of a certain age” 
Rip
This is so heartbreaking 💔 😢
Whaaaattttt ???? He's only like 60, what happened???
Nine Nine! 💔
Im bawling my eyes out reading all these😣😖
Nine Nine!
Damn... I hope he left peacefully, thanks for the good days cap.
Nine nine.
This is so pump sad pump pump.
Nine nine ❤️
Cheers! To the 99th precinct
Nine Nine !
nine nine
This can't be right
Everything is garbage...
Omg I just read this at work, im in shock, can't believe he's gone @61. You will be missed Andre, your talent and character are brilliant and we will continue to watch and love your beautiful work, rip. Nine-Nine!
99!
RIP captain holt 😔
bingpot

thought i had it wrong...
Nine nine!
Oh this hurts
Nine Nine, woke from a nightmare at 1:30am, to see the news on my phone.
I have never been personally affected by a celebrity death until now. My heart hurts.
just seeing the news
I cant believe this happening :(
Nine nine!
:(
NINE NINE! 🫡💔
Fuuuck
99
Nine Nine…
No no no  no noooo
RIP Captain Dad
nine nine :(
Always loved his VIDICATION!!!!
nine nine !!!
I’m HEARTBROKEN.
Nine nine!
I cried when the series ended and now I'm crying because we lost another great actor. I love Captain Holt and Brooklyn 99 has been my comfort show throughout my depression. Damn, I still watch it every day.
NINE NINE
Nine Nine ❤️
He gave me an all new appreciation for a heavy bosom.
Nine Nine!
Nine nine! :(
Nine nine!
I found out just right now because of this post, I can feel my head about to get messed up.
Nine nine
Nine Nine
That was beautiful. Made me tear up. This is a hard loss.
NINE NINE
VINDICATION !!!!
Nine Nine
When I die please give Kevin my regards.
Nine nine 🫡
💔
Nine nine
Nine Nine 💔
Nine nine 😭😭😭

Rip Captain Holt
RIP Capt. Dad. You are well loved.
Such a shock that we have lost another great 💔
Nine-Nine
Pain
He was so young.

RIP, King
Nine-Nine
R.I.P I just finished rewatching this show for the 4th time too🥺
 9️⃣ 9️⃣
Nine-nine
I always found him the star of the show honestly. 90% of the scenes that had me crying laugh involved him. It's so sad he's gone
I keep coming back to this news because I can’t accept that it’s real. He passed way too soon. Hands down the best character on TV by far for me. Best, wittiest, hilarious actor. 

Andre you will be dearly missed.
I am so heartbroken. I followed this sub for years but stopped lately because I was trying to “get away from B99” for a while so I would want to rewatch it again soon. 

Celebrity deaths don’t affect me very often but this one hit me like a truck at work today.  

Hes one of those celebs that seems genuine on screen.  Like..: as likeable as he is on screen, he seems in real life. 

He was one of my favourite characters on 99 without a doubt I’m sure everyone shares that feeling, but I’m the type that has to feel like the actor behind the character is a good person in order to really connect with the character and that was the case with Holt/Andre. 

I wish I knew he was sick so I could’ve braced myself for this news today because like I said, it caught me completely off guard at work and I stumbled through the next hour or so because I was so rattled by it.  

I was waiting for some of the cast to comment because obviously this is not my loss but it is theirs and I wanted to “grieve vicariously” through those who really knew him.
Well my day got worse
Dear Captain Holt,

Regards.

Sincerely, todaywasagood
Nine Nine 🥺
NINE NINE!
Cheers to the 99th precinct!

😭
Dear Captain Holt,

Nine-nine.


Sincerely, 

Telenovela_Villain
Nine Nine! 🫡
Nine Nine!
Nine nine 😭
Cheers to the ninety-ninth precinct!
Cheers to the 99th precinct! 😭
Nine Nine!
Nine Nine!
NINE NINE!
Nine nine!
Nine Nine!
Nine nine 💔
Nine Nine ❤️
Nine Nine
Nine Nine
NINE NINE! 99! Captain Dad.
We will miss you Captain, we wish you peace

NINE-NINE!
Nine nine!
NINE NINE!
Nine Nine
Nine Nine! ❤️
Nine nine
NINE NINE 🫡
Nine nine
NINE NINE
Nine Nine!
Nine Nine!
Nine Nine 🤧
Nine Nine 💔
Noine noine!!
NINE NINE
Nine Nine!
Nine Nine!
Nine Nine!
Nine Nine
Nine Nine
Nine Nine!
Nine Nine!
Nine nine🤍
Nine Nine.
NINE NINE!!
Nine Nine!
Nine nine
Nine nine
Nine Nine!
Nine Nine! 

❤️❤️❤️
Nine Nine!
Nine Nine
Nine Nine 😭
Nine nine!
NINE NINE!
NINE NINE!!
Nine nine!
Nine Nine forever!!
Nine Nine!
Nine Nine!
Nine Nine!
Nine Nine!!
First Matthew Perry. Now, Captain Dad. What a terrible few months it has been
Alrighy. I’m gonna go cry.
Regards.
Yes, he is such an important character to me for that reason. I feel like Capt. Holt was written with so much respect, but at the same time, he was written as just a "regular" guy. Like you said, he just so happened to be gay.

I came up during the "Glee" era of television where being gay was often the focus of a character's personality, to that point that the representation no longer felt genuine. Capt. Holt's character was so different from what I was used to seeing. We have Andre to thank for the respectful and fantastic performance (and of course the writers for their genius writing).

I will always be moved especially by the episode where Rosa comes out, and she and Holt hug. "Every time someone steps up and says who they are, the world becomes a better, more interesting place." I'm sure Andre has inspired many people to say who they are, and for that, he himself has helped make the world an infinitely more interesting place. </3
I started putting a small pride flag in my pencil cup at work because of Holt.
Having grown up with the 90's and 00's era ultra stereotypical gay men on TV, i absolutely loved and appreciated everything he brought to Captain Holt.
Yaaasss queen *snaps* sniffle
10000%, he was a person… that was gay. Not a gay person.
>he was just a guy who happened to be gay.

That is a bit of a misteading of the character.

While Holt wasn't stereotypically gay, (or for that matter, black), his character was a very conscious *opposite* of certain stereotypes.

A main joke of the character was, that his hobbies, his living condition, his romantic relationship, are all what could be described as extremely white and heterosexual.

He is a married suburban birdwatcher with a dog named Cheddar. 

His stoicism was the intentional opposite of both the flamboyant gay stereotype, AND the action movie cliché of the angry black police captain yelling at the hero.
His character was outstanding. I don't think I've seen another character like him. 

The early 00s or even the late 90s, it was very much "we're here, we're queer, get used to it". It was that fight to say we're not some dirty little secret to hide away as "just roommates" we are not going to "keep things in the bedroom" and then become straight passing in public. It needed strong personalities and flamboyancy to get the message out and to stand up. 

But after that gays had equal rights (as far as I'm aware) but they were seen as this singular stereotype of the flamboyant limpwristed well dressed man. It felt very much like people was saying "we've given you what you want now stop shoving it in our face and go back to behind close doors" . There was no real gay protagonist on tv or film, they was always the side character, the fun best friend.

The way they portrayed Holt is like how most gay men are. He didn't fit the stereotype but he wasnt written to be against the stereotype either, he was just his own fully fleshed out character with his own personality. He also wasn't just a I'm gay but I'm going to act straight so people know I'm not one of the" bad gays". 

Being gay was part of his backstory, he was open and honest and he fought to be who he is and to be out and he got so much shit for it and he still stood up openly and honestly. He is quite simply a role model for the lgbt of how to be honest and true to who you are and still be unapologetically yourself. And it really saddens me about Andre, as he done a remarkable job and played the character with such grace and respect for the community, he will be missed.
This is so perfectly said. 😔
I know. I started a Friends rewatch after years of not watching it just to see Chandler again but B99 is my comfort show, I've lost track how many times I've seen each season. It's going to be painful watching it now.
Fucking same man. 😭 My two comfort shows!
I’ve been a bit sad when certain celebrities have died in the past, but I’m actually crying, and I’ve been crying since hearing this news.  It’s such a tragedy when the world loses such vibrant people, especially as young as Andre was.
it wrecked me reading the cast of FRIENDS saying their goodbyes to Matthew Perry. this is gonna be really tough too.
I thought it was a joke post at first, I’m so devastated. He was only 61 years old.
The show just doesn't work without him. It's for the best if it just never happens now. 

What a sad day.
So so true.
>[Andre Braugher, the two-time Emmy winning actor who starred in the hit television series “Brooklyn Nine-Nine” and “Homicide: Life on the Street,” died Monday after a brief illness. He was 61.](https://variety.com/2023/tv/news/andre-braugher-dead-brooklyn-nine-nine-1235835771/)
i tried to put the hashtag and it made it big
So no one died before vaccines? Woah never knew that
Well fuck you too then
cheers to the ninety-ninth precinct
Nine nine!
Nine Nine!
Nine Nine!
Cheers, Nine Nine!
Nine nine!!!
Nine Nine
Noine Noine!
Nine nine!
Nine Nine 🥹😥
It’s been rough this last months for sure! Both Perry and Braugher were wonderful people and had amazing roles that set healthy role models for us as their characters matured! Just heartbreaking
Right?? This sucks 😭
We will all remember how much we have hated the 2020s.
All I need now is a cast member of modern family to die and my comfort shows are tarnished 🥺
Just watched that scene
IMO He was the Gay "Straight Man" for most jokes. And it just works.
>"Every time someone steps up and says who they are, the world becomes a better, more interesting place."

Words that I wish everyone these days could understand. RIP to a great actor, and an icon.
I just want to say that "Glee era TV" and Glee itself were also important for their own reasons.

If you watch the pilot and early episodes of Glee, the show is very different from where it ended up going. It was more of a high school based dark comedy and less of the drama / light comedy it became later on.

Glee was gaining in popularity when there was a spate of youth LGBT suicides. The "It gets better" campaign was launched to try to encourage LGBT kids that life could well, get better, and it was worth sticking around for.

The writers of Glee made a conscious decision to pivot and go in a different direction with the show. While not everyone could identify with a character like Kurt 100% a lot of kids could see parts of themselves in him.
Thats a really cool small tribute! Holts influence stretched beyond the screen and impacted real lives in so many simple yet profound ways. His character always served as a reminder that being true to yourself has a power that resonates with others around you, sometimes in ways you don't even realize.
Same!!
Nothing camp, no overstated lisp, no bright colours, flag waving, feathers, and glitter. 

He was in boots, a suit, wearing a badge, carrying a gun, and commanding. He was clearly in charge of the situation and you fell in line with his orders or were asked to leave (which Jake had a hard time with) 

And he was absolutely brilliant.
He did wear that red hat once though.
As they often say, hopefully your sadness is soon filled with happy memories. He was a great actor, and wish we could thank him once more for his talents, but we'll honor him with his works.
[removed]
Watched this one last night 😪
Nine nine!
I grew up being told that "bad things come in threes". If you are superstitious, perhaps you can ascribe to 2023 marking the end of a rough start to an otherwise decent decade.

Although I do not believe in such things myself, it can be comforting to imagine seven "lucky" years ahead.
Don’t you dare!! I’m on my 756th rewatch of the series, I won’t be able to handle it 😖
Delete this comment now!
I always wondered if that was the very subtle joke, that the straight man was gay.
Oh lord that was the joke - the gay “straight man”. Thank you for enlightening me.
God yes. This episode helped me understand so much about myself. 

I’m a cis woman in a straight presenting relationship, but I’m pan/bi (work in progress) and have been struggling with how to let people in and communicate to my family.

It helped me feel included. Not the other that I’d always felt.
Same with Brittany and Santana in Glee.  Their characters weren't explicitly written as gay/bi, but they were developed that way in season 4.  Especially since lots of kids understand there's a sexuality spectrum, few people are just totally gay/straight/bi.

It's sad as hell that Naya Rivera (Santana) died in 2020 due to some random swimming accident.
I mean, he tried something-- and it didn't work.

:')
Nine Nine!
Nine Nine!
Nine Nine!
Yeah I don't subscribe to that kind of stuff either. It will suck or it won't.
If it was Community I would've assumed that.

But B99 never striked me as a very meta or self-referential show. So I think it was just accidental.
It was always my assumption, like you say, a subtle joke that never needed lampshading.
Nine Nine!
A room full of professional comedy writers 100% would recognize that they made their straight man gay, the only difference is a Dan Harmon show would’ve made an explicit joke about this dynamic.

It was a decent part of the B99 discourse when it was airing.
Nine nine 🫡
Nine nine.🍷
Nine nine
Nine nine🇺🇸
Nine-Nine!!!!
UH NOINE NOINE!
NINE NINE!!!
Biggest plot twist ever…
I never could’ve guessed this..
[deleted]
WingSlut is a cruel mistress.
Biggest Plot twist ever?

_You bet your nips it was skidmark_
From Reacher to Reach to the hot wings
This is the origin story we all need....Psst, Crockett & Tubbs, please.
Scully: Are you body shaming us?

Jake: No, I’m personality-shaming you.
Gave me Sam and Dean vibes and I'm all for it! Would definitely watch their spin off either as two young hunks or as they are
Yeah. Scully and Hitchcock are actually good cops and cool action stars is a plot twist
Apart from some of their appearance, they haven’t changed much.
Especially considering how they looked in the 70s
I think they cast the younger versions so well 😂 I could absolutely see it!
Flat top and the Freak!
Scully is actually Jack Reacher!

What a twist!
They look equally hot to me
Pretty people privilege, imagining the “can’t spill food on your shirt if you’re not wearing one” scene with young Hitchcock and suddenly it’s charming. Probably why he acts that way, people used to find it hot and he doesn’t grasp that it’s not appropriate because of that
MEOW!
Who knew Scully was Aquaman.
I forgot what show I was watching for a bit and when it was revealed they were Hitchcock and Scully I lost it. So good
"personality shaming" was crazy lmao
So that's what happened to Thad Castle
I desperately want a spin off following these two hunks in the wet and wild 1980’s
Alan Ritchson as Scully is PERFECT especially after seeing him on Blue Mountain State and Reacher lmao
I remember watching the new series of Reacher then putting this episode on. I had no idea it was him and just said “Reacher, you’re so much smaller in B99”
The Flat-top and The Freak!
Mr. Nine Nine signing off.
Only thing is that Hitchcock was supposed to start balding at 15…so another plot twist: that’s a toupee.
how have i only just noticed that skullys younger version is alan ritchson 😂😂😂 

what a donut i am 🤦‍♂️😂
Wait a minute that's Reacher?

What the fuck I never realized it
Skully is reacher
When Reacher finally stops wandering the land, he settles in New York and lets himself gooo.
That's how he was able to get Kelly.
I was so confused when this episode started. I figured it was Jake watching a cop movie at first.
Hottest dicks in the 99
Top tier casting though!
I thought Jake knew Hitchcock went bald at 15
Loved the flashbacks
You could have told me they cast their sons or nephews, and I would believe you.
# MEEEEOWW!!
It's a bit of a plot hole though, Hitchcock was supposed to have gone bold in his teens
"here, get some protein!"

🎶 *"Take your breath awaaaaay"*🎶
Honestly so hot
More like biggest plot hole considering we’d already seen them in the 70s and it was just regular fat scully and Hitchcock
I’m confused what this means
I really wan't a prequel with them!!!
We need a hitchcock and scully spinoff
The right is hotter
"Would you like that drink now, Hitchcock?"
I like to think of scully as a post retirement Jack Reacher now
I was also in the middle of Reacher at the time I saw this and I lost my mind when I saw Alan Richson as Scully. One of the best castings of all time.
Never seen them side by side before and it’s ridiculously good! Just ignore the height differences haha
The Hitchcock casting was amazing. Young Hitchcock feels sleazy in a kind of Han Solo way, and down the line he’s become a way creepier type of sleazy.
The fun part is, as the young Scully actor (Alan Ritchson) has gotten a bit older, his face HAS gotten wider.
Jack Reacher as Scully was by far the most funniest casting I've seen
This one is definitely good, but if you’ve never seen the show Dark (don’t google it first), that show undoubtedly has the absolute most insane instance of this kind of thing I’ve ever seen. 

Imagine this but on an even higher level and for an entire cast across multiple generations
I think the more narrow face works fine with Young Scully because Skully is quite overweight and you can see that kind of weight in the face. It wouldn't change the bone structure, but it would look similaar enough that it wouldn't be a big deal.
But the sauce! Oh Marone, the sauce- continue
𝘠𝘰𝘶 𝘴𝘶𝘤𝘬, 𝘮𝘢𝘯
I thought that was him! (he was also in the Titans show, which I hadn't seen till after Reacher)
He's an absolute unit of a man in Reacher. And after learning what Reachers original character sketch looks like, I'd say he's pretty accurate.

Unfortunately after learning about that discrepancy, Tom Cruise as Reacher had a significant drop in intimidation factor.

The phrase "I'm gonna rip your arm off and beat you with it" has two completely different images now, Tom Cruise's Reacher might dislocate your arm and then beat your face in, Alan Ritchson's Reacher might literally rip your arm off and beat you with it.
Also know as Barbie from Blood Drive.
From Thad Castle to White Castle
Nice save Jake, we all know you can't tell a personality from a picture.
But do they deserves to be personality shamed?
Yeah, that was a little inconsistency 
I was looking for this comment lol, after finishing it the first time and rewatching it right after I was like, woah that’s a missed detail lol
Which episode showed them in the 70s? Sounds like I need a rewatch.
Fox Mulder will be shook when he finds out!
Meow indeed
they shrunk, apparently
He learned when he was young and handsome that it works and never changed that mindset as he aged.
I bet han solo would be creepy too if he had the confidence to hit on breastfeeding women
Reprisal pls
That’s the steroid effect, makes your face muscles balloon out like Chris hemsworth
I believe you mean Thad Castle.

Party at the Goat House!!!
The casting of family members in this show is truly brilliant.
He was also the boyfriend with a micropenis in New Girl. I'm convinced this is why Reacher season 1 included comments about his character having a big swinging one.
Ahh I didn’t watch Titans. Heard it wasn’t great
Happy cake day!
Remember him first from Smallville, he was Aquaman. Dude has been ripped his entire life
He's also Raphael in The Michael Bay TMNT
The scene where Reacher beats that guy who carjacked the lady, and then walks off is peak male power fantasy in my opinion. 


Tom Cruise just was an awful casting choice.
I couldn't get in to Tim Cruise as Reacher*. I couldn't separate him from his Character in Mission Impossible.
I started rewatching Blue Mountain State and his character is a lot crazier than I remembered.
20 years ago Scully was doing his job and Hitchcock was still getting some. Why should they?
I mean you could read that as how Jake imagined they looked back then.
S1E20, scully talks about taking diet pills
You do shrink as you age. Less so in men but they still do
Scully isn't as fat as he looks, it's just that there's a foot of his spine folded in his belly
Huh, TIL. I thought any size jokes were because he's a more book accurate Reacher than Tom Cruise's movie version.
Hey just cuz a guys got a little squeaker, doesn’t mean I can’t date him!
I don't know what yall are talking about. That is clearly Thad Castle
I actually enjoyed Titans.
The only thing Il give him is that it’s much more believable that someone would pick a fight with a 5’7” guy over a 6’5” guy who’s built like a brick shed
Good point 
I mean it also can be cause by surgeries, esp. Knee replacements. My mom had a botched knee replacement and got it redone. Because they had to take of so much bone to get the replacement placed she was a good 5 inch shorter after lol
I was taller and wider than my grandpa when he died. I was like 15, and he used to be a truck driver that had previously lifted someone *over* his head in a non-iceskating setting lol
Rise of Thadland is a fucking awesome movie. 

I'm a huge fan of the United nations of cocaine.
Newsflash!
Don't get me wrong, I like the Reacher movies I think they did a decent job. But the brick house that Alan Ritchson is, has a dramatic intimidation effect.

It's like looking at Hercules and deciding to pick a fight, pain is the only thing your gonna find there. The character Reacher is, is quite literally designed to be a teenager's dream of "Peak Male Fitness" and that's fine, but unfortunately Tom Cruise just doesn't deliver. 

Still I like the movies, but I chuckle at the thought what the scenes would of been like with Alan Ritchson, that bar fight would of been interesting, or when he tried blending in with the crowd at the bus stop, playing the game "find the main character in the crowd" there.
My dad started out about 1.5" taller than me, but after his two knee surgeries (shockingly service related) and hip surgery (u shockingly not service related even though his knees being bad fucked his hip), he ended up being about 3" shorter than me.
One of the tallest guys I know told me he used to be 3 inches taller but he messed up his back in a motorcycle accident and they had to remove some of his vertebrae (or something like that, it was a while ago).
geez, 5 inches!? i would have a midlife crisis lmao
Man, I loved BMS. Was so excited for Rise of Thadland but it just didn't do it for me from what I remember. Might me time to check it out again.
Oh yeah Ritchson is the perfect Reacher
Yeah give it another go for sure, BMS was great tho, I thought I'd hate it because I have zero interest in any sports but that show was hilarious.
That’s because even though it’s a sport series, there’s only like 5 minutes of actual football at the end of the series! :-D
I love the refrence to Andy Samberg 🥹😂😂
I love Peralberg it kills me 😂
Boyle is so loyal that even his made up best friend is Jewish Jake 🥹.
I don't know if it's a reference to Sandberg or because it's a cliché that Jewish-heritage names are ended on -berg (like Spielberg or Schönberg) and he's playing a hebrew doctor. Probably both.
The fact that Jake is jewish in real life but he had to set the jewishness up by 70% to make it more believable
He just Hebrew'd Jacob Peralta.
I always thought it was a reference to Jacob Peralta the character and the actor himself.
i love that jake is actually jewish but boyle made his name more jewish
It's a reference to the character Jake Peralta, not a reference to actor Andy Samberg.
What is this pic from?
Lmao Nice catch! Boyle is one LOYAL FRIEND!!
What show is this?
In real life Andy is only half Jewish as his other half is German 💖
Show? Episode?
Pretty sure Jake is Jewish
Jake is Jewish, that’s just a more Yiddish (I think) name
Yes lmao this is a reference to Jake
Ah! If that’s the case that’s funny too cause Boyle was supposed to be a Jewish doctor I thought they were combining Andy’s real and fake name into one last name lol
Yacob is Jacob is Jake Peral…. Yeah it’s definitely a reference!
Fun fact: berg means mountain in germanic languages (like swedish, where I know it from).
The berg thing works for an Ashkenazi character, but Peralta as a last name could work if Jake's Sephardi.
I think you mean Andy.
It is!
I think the Yacob's last name is a portmanteau of Jake the character's last name (**Peral**ta) and Andy the actor's last name (Sam**berg**).
The episode where Amy was pretend pregnant and  undercover in prison.
Brooklyn nine nine
[deleted]
The one true Boyle
Brooklyn 99 you’re in the server ✊🏽
Season 3 episode 22 I believe
I've seen the show many times, and I was also wondering if it could be Joe Lo Truglio in another show making a sort of "cameo joke" if that's a thing, but also thought it could be from an episode I didn't remember and was trying to remember, thanks for asking hahaha have a great day :)
Brooklyn Nine Nine subreddit chief, it’s in the title
Are you jakey the jew or jake lady hands? 😅
*I'm only half!*
Jake is definitely Jewish. His mom is on the show
He is only half.

Or so he said in they episode where he is trying to bring Kevin and Holt together.
Agreed.
He's only half
He is, yeah.
5k upvotes bc op didnt get the joke
They definitely were lol
It’s a reference to Jake Peralta, yeah, but not a reference to Andy Samberg.
And burg means fancy house. And borg means RESISTANCE IS FUTILE.
I don't th
THATS EXACTLY WHAT I THOUGHT
How have I never noticed this? Good catch!
Good point.
Ah thank you! Wasn’t sure if this was from another show or not
/u/blackyanqui could be another show with the same actor making a reference, also this doesn't help if someone is looking for the episode/scene
Thank you
Actually It’s not, neither is the episode # but alright. 

I’m watching but sorry I haven’t made it far enough to pick the scene out and asking for reference, stupid thing to ask other fans huh.
Well It feels weird saying this but i hope Jakey the Jew?
Best joke ever written
can someone explain that joke because i still don't understand it:(
Iirc Jewish heritage is tracked via the mom, so Jake would be Jewish but his son wouldn’t
Ikr lol
Thank you so much, this thread was making me feel crazy. This is in no way a reference to Andy Samberg
Peral-berg! I’d say there’s a nod to Andy.
TIL the Swedish Chef was singing and talking about resistance being futile.
THERE ARE THREE. LIGHTS.
Jake isn't anything in real life.  He's a fictional character. 

Also, are you okay?  You stopped mid-word.
I told him the show. I don’t know the episode, so I didn’t tell him.
It is indescribably stupid to walk into a fandom space and ask what show they’re talking about.
Ahhhh, lady hands! Yeah
How antisemitic is he?

Average?

Oh okay great
So underrated! 😂 maybe because it’s pretty subtle or because people seem to hate the last season (even though I don’t think it was bad 🤷‍♂️)
They were referencing one of Jake’s lines.
Mac would be considered Jewish by Reform/some Conservative Jews, but not by Orthodox Jews.
Sure, but in context, the joke seems to be that he’s just looking for a stereotypical Jewish name to transform Peralta into. He could’ve said Peralstein and it would’ve been the same joke. I guess you could say it’s a reference to Samberg, but the truth is Andy just has one of those stereotypical last names too.
I think you Andy, bro.
I know it's a weird way to put it I meant real in-universe Jake is already jewish
I thought it was a new show where they guested on eachothers show and this was a call back to B99. It’s crazy how you guys can’t fathom that someone may not have finished the show and memorize all jokes and scenes.

This looks genuinely funny and I was curious, made the mistake to ask I guess. It’s fucking insane how toxic fans get so fast like their fandom is a religion. Give me time to catch up. 

Yall like the Star Wars base, what’s even more crazy is you won’t admit fault and say it was an honest mistake and provide the info to what episode, instead your enjoying feeling superior to another fan for more dedication like seriously? Yall not welcoming? Damn. Anyways sorry I shit in ur cereal with what I thought was an honest question, I just wanted to see the joke myself. I’ll leave yall alone now.
probably because it's subtle, no? i remember seeing a post where ppl just got it.
Honestly fair, his mom got back together with his dad after many affairs, she’s probably not orthodox. She may be following a kosher diet though, I don’t believe she ever breaks it on screen, but Jake breaks it frequently.
Only by Reform standards and only if he's actually raised Jewish
Wouldn't it also depend on whether they raise Mac to be Jewish?
Berg means mountain, alta means high.

Tenuous? Maybe. But I think it works better than stein.
Sure but there’s plenty of other endings they could have used. Doubt it’s an accident
Gonna start saying that to random people
That’s a really big leap in logic for you to make. You chastise us for not admitting to making mistakes, but then you don’t admit that maybe your question (and the way you said) was a quite odd.
If Jake is eating pork as much as he is, I have my doubts. The kid might wind up catholic or something- it’s hard to tell what Amy believes
And they got passive aggressive when someone pointed it out.
Finished watching the show
I just finished watching the show and bawled my eyes out in this scene.

I think everyone should watch this show it's so diff from all the shows i have watched no drama geniune good relationships between people and good story.

But i also have to say I genuinely don't like season 8 it tried to be something that was not the original essence of the show the only 2 episodes I like in this season were Doug judy and last episode.

It was tooo woke for exactly 2 episodes I dint get the purpose atleast if it had been like an actual good storyline I would have gone with it but it was so rushed and even kind of our of place.

And I hated jake leaving from being a detective i don't think it was right he was one of the best detectives in the 99 the way he solved cases amazed me always.
I thought that Jake leaving to be a dad made sense for his character development. When we first met him, he was an immature, impulsive, self-centered workaholic with an authority issue. His work was the only aspect of his life that he wasn't failing at, and it wasn't for lack of trying. He just happened to be smarter than he was insubordinate.

His arc over the entire show was growing up and becoming a better person. Jake had an absent father and a lot of his issues in life can be directly traced back to that. Nobody has ever been there for little Jake. Leaving the police for something that was bigger than the job was the final step of his growing up journey. Jake wanted to be the father that he deserved.
That last scene was beautiful. Samberg did the perfect 'hold back crying' face.
One does not simply finish watching Brooklyn 99, for there is no finishing it, only starting again
I never had a son...but if I did, I would be happy if he turned out like you.

WHO CUT THE ONIONS??
Then you're in for a treat, because you can watch it from the beginning again🤩
My favorite tidbit is that the "title of your sex tape" bit started as a thing the cast (I believe mostly Andy) would say to try and break each other between takes, and then Andy worked it into the first Halloween episode and it was an instant hit. The fact that it became such a powerful thing that it can be a really funny joke that also makes you emotional by the end is just incredible tbh
I just finished today. I loved season 8.


Andre Braugher is one of my all time favorite actors.
well time to rewatch it
season 8 was definitely heavy but also necessary. they talked about the seriousness of the issues at the time while still making it palatable for their audience. it was a serious shift from all the previous episodes but they wrapped it up perfectly. Each character still aligned with their tropes and growth and you can really see it when you start watching it from the beginning again (because you have to watch it again. it’s like a right of passage).
I'm rewatching it on Netflix and almost done with Season 4...God I miss Andre 😢 


And it's still funny no matter how many times I watch it
Without a doubt a beautiful TV show.
As far as I am aware, after season 7, there was massive backlash against police in the US after many stories of police brutality, part of which was a lot of pushback on cop shows glorifying the police. A lot of other cop shows just ended. They had to take a different approach to season 8 so close it off nicely and still be adored among all the backlash. Hence a more “woke” season 8. Season 8 wasn’t all as great as the previous seasons, but was great for what they were working with!
Imagine calling Brooklyn 99 too woke
Im rewatching it now! I think its even better the second time around!
2 woke? Wild
Question I started on Netflix where us the rest of the show?
I was screaming and crying because what the heck guys it's so perfect. Boyle found himself a Boyle though.
Omg same here, I just finished the show last night, but I think season 8 was the perfect final season for the show.  You can't exactly expect the writers and actors to ignore all that happened in 2020 and continue with goofy cop stuff as that would have been quite insensitive
Title of your sexual media content.
Jake could have been a consultant or a trainer for the NYPD instead of being part of an active squad.
This scene really pulled on my heart strings
I really wish white people would stop saying everything is “woke”. PLEASE!!!
just finished this show and bawled for 20 minutes straight. my mom saw me and laughed and gave me some tissues. i dont think i have ever found a show this heartfelt. the characters and their stories always kept me interested. they're like family. NINE NINE
For me, watching Andre Braugher go from the guy in “Homicide: Life on the Streets” to him playing Captain Holt, REALLY made me a fan of his and it was kinda nice watching Holt and Jake’s friendship grow. Honestly I think that played a huge part in me falling in love with this show!
I hated season 8, in my mind the show ends at S7. 

Jake leaving makes real sense, but is just done and handled so fast and so badly that you really aren’t able to enjoy saying bye to these characters. The one I hated most was Rosa, leaves episode 1 and was just a dick the rest of the season to everyone because they’re still cops.
Hey, so I just wanted to say that as you’ve used the word “woke” unironically, I think you’re a complete moron.
Someone is cutting onions here!
My only wish for season 8 was for Boyle to win the Halloween heist. As they set the episode, I think it would be so perfect for him to win and say that he’s happy for Jake because he loves and respects him and they will always be friends ❤️ but I still love it and it will always just start again
I watched the first 4 seasons on Netflix, wish the rest was on there too
Can I be honest?? The only thing I truly hated about the final was the fact that Hitchcock won the final heist that to me made no fucking sense and I wish Jake actually got to do his final goodbyes his own way, though coincidentally I did like how Boyle found out that shit broke my heart
Jake leaving the detective role, it was definitely a hard shift, especially since his brilliance in solving cases was such a key part of what made him and the show so special.
Sorry copraganda show was too woke
Definitely agree with this take. Jake's at the stage in his life where his family becomes his top priority. But to comment on OP's last paragraph, just because he chooses to be a stay-at-home-parent doesn't mean he'll never return to detective work - maybe one day when Mac is older.
Definitely. It's just the last season was a bit too in your face. I think to me I didn't expect the last season to be set in COVID. Plus the sudden shift of a cop show being anti-cop was also weird. But overall it was a great show.
I guess he rubbed off a little on you too.
Season 8 wasn't really that bad. The show was hardly ever not woke, granted it was more so during season 8. Covid and after was hectic, the show ended well. If this was the final scene, though, with Braugher dying fairly shortly after, this scene - if it was the last - would've possibly been a lot of cause for tears for many, many rewatches.
He is an amazing emotional actor! It always blew me away how for a comedic actor he can go from comedy to emotions just like that in a single scene and be just as believable in both! I actually think Jake does that best in all of the actors on the show (who are all amazing but had less variance in their emotion from scene to scene)
I watched the full series back to back 3 times after my introduction to it.
“This job is eating me alive.. I can’t breathe anymore..”
Like the gunslinger and the Dark Tower…
I'm so upset that Netflix only has the first 4 seasons in the US
Perfect callback to episode 1 especially with the immediate rewatch.
And it gets better the more times you watch it!
"Title of your *sextant* tape."
Can’t think of his name. The Allstate spokesperson. Great episode when they both are buddies. “It’s like two robots” 😂😂
Only twice? Better hurry and catch up to the rest of us. 😉
Peacock.
I was mad too and searched for it just watch it on peacock they have all the seasons.
Ty
Still on Netflix if you VPN to other countries (I know Mexico Netflix has it, I've heard Canada does also).
I own the series on my Apple account.
Oh no! You’re completely right,  I meant to reply as a stand alone comment, sorry xx
I think I binged seasons 1-5 because they were the only ones out on Netflix and then watched seasons 6,7, and 8 as they released and enjoyed them much less. Now that I’m older and can binge the seasons all together, I enjoy the series much more and now that I’m not watching in the era it’s being released it feels less woke, idk if that makes sense but watching season 8 as it was being released episode by episode it was less enjoyable But giving it a break ( which lasted a few years ) it’s definitely more enjoyable, and I definitely have a much greater appreciation for the series as a whole.
Lmao 😂 I am from India and am brown so.

Also please let me give you context if I sounded wrong what I meant was the first few episodes were stuffed with this storyline kind of forcefully.

Instead of being a genuine msge they wanted to convey it was done just got doing it and didn't feel right
Hitchcock winning a heist and Charles not winning even a single one is the most annoying thing
Those are like, completely opposite complaints.
I don't even think that's a maybe. He'll definitely return once Mac (or a hypothetical 2nd child) is old enough for an appropriate kind of daycare or kindergarten or whatever. 
While the being-the-dad-he-didn't-really-have approach is definitely part of it, it was also a logical decision. While Amy has the task force and a steep career plan, Jake is happy to just stay an amazing detective/genius for the rest of his career.
Here’s the thing the show was shot during Covid because it probably had to be NBC probably didn’t want to wait until Covid died out to finish the show as the world didn’t know when Covid was gonna end, also I personally loved the last season as it was extremely realistic my mom has been dating a cop now for 14 years and when we firstly met him cops were loved and respected,nowadays it gets uncomfortable being in the same room as him knowing he’s a cop and we fight all the time on police and how “terrible they are now” bottom line it was portrayed perfectly as I saw it the same way as the people did especially since it was after George Floyd
I've found that, generally speaking, comedic actors can often nail dramatic roles if they want to, whereas the reverse is far from always true. There's a level of timing and control that comes with comedy that seems to be useful in those serious moments. But being serious doesn't always mean funny. That's why Andre Braugher *nailed* the role of Holt, where a lesser actor might have played it too straight and just come across as mean or antagonistic.
It's a treasure that's on my permanent rewatch list.

I listen to TV shows S background music while I work, so I have a rotation of wonderful shows and I love experiencing it every single time 

Top notch job from everyone.
NINE NINE!
I think you replied to the wrong comment lol
EXACTLY!!!! I personally would’ve found it HILARIOUS if it was Terry who had won
And also my favorite line was when everyone yelled at Amy for saying she was the first to win I think twice? Or three times?
That is correct
I'd like to imagine Jake would be a Private Investigator or someone an action movie star would look to for inspiration. Maybe even an advisor to budding NYPD detectives.

Most likely a PI. One of many reasons Jake left apart from Mac was because he realised the NYPD, like all other American Police Forces, was corrupt.
Interesting. Some of the showmakers clearly had the same experiences as you. But it was a bit off left field for me as a non American
I can't remember who said it, but "comedy is tragedy plus timing".
Lol!! I do the same.  My list is B99, Office, Park and Rec, HIMYM, Its always Sunny, Futurama, the Good place and Bojack
What are the list of shows?
That’s true too
I do the same, mine are: HIMYM, B99, Modern Family, BBT, The Office and Frasier.
Oh man, that's a pretty big question. I'll split the shows into ones that I will rewatch at any time, ones that I rewatch when I'm in the mood for it, and shows that are not always exceptional but I have strong nostalgia and enjoy watching them. I'm living off a ton of shows that I rewatch when I feel they have fallen far enough out of my memory.

If your wanting a specific type of recommendation, let me know.

Things always in the mood to rewatch:  Brooklyn 99, Gravity Falls, Steven Universe, Futurama, Charmed, Community, Firefly, Hilda, Warehouse 13, IT Crowd, Avatar/Korra, Leverage, Psych, Parks and Rec (Normally skip season 1), Kippo and the Age of wonder beasts, Letterkenny, The Owl House.

In the mood rewatches: Castle, Doctor Who, Better Off Ted, Boston Legal, House, The Mentalist, Orville, Sherlock (BBC), Wandavision, Selfie, Invincible.

Nostalgia rewatches: Big Bang Theory, Friends, Scrubs, Fillmore, Fresh Prince of Bel Air, That 70's show (Haven't watched since the rape stuff, might never pick it back up), How I met your mother, Kim Possible, Simpsons (Mostly early season).
Mine are: in no particular order, B99, Scrubs, Friends, Two and a Half Men and TBBT
Love it when Scully calls Jake as "Jakey"
It has my whole heart
scully is just so endearing to me
And when he said "You're a saint, Jakey, I love you" to Jake over the phone 🥺 and then Jake said "I love you too" 🥹🥹
Scully is one of my favorites, he’s gross and lacks basic understanding but he’s not a weird sex freak like Hitchcock
"I'll help you with your work stuff Jakey"
When I was in rehab there was a dude around 20 years older than me named Steve and I couldn't call him Steve, I always called him "Stevie." He was a goofball and definitely an addict.

Anyways he told me one day that I'm the only one allowed to call him that and don't go letting anyone else hear me call him that.
hitchcock is kinda gross, but scully is the exact kind of weird older man id be friends with if we worked together lmao, he's just funny sometimes he shows you his weird bodily habits but to some people that would be legitimately amusing, probably a chill guy to hangout with honestly
We don't have a drunk uncle in the team

We have 2 drunk neighbors
ME TOO!! Basically no one else does that, it’s just Scully’s thing. It’s so adorable.
On the other hand, when he's mad at him (e.g., when Jake didn't tell him about the pancake loophole) there's no "Jakey" there 😅
I love you Jakey
One of my cats is named Jake Peralta and I almost exclusively call him Jakey
I think other than Hitchcock Jake was the only one that Scully viewed as a real friend, their relationship was pretty wholesome overall and we didn't see enough of it on screen
They could make Hitchcock so weird because Scully is so sweet. They’re perfectly matched
+Scully we need you to fake a medical condition.
-Don't need to, I always have one!
Scully is the best it’s weird that such an endearing person is ~~husbands~~ best friends with Hitchcock, a weird gross sex freak
Omg I literally just watched this episode
That’s because it’s all wart.
Scully is so cute
I'll tell you what, if i got murdered i definitely hope Hitchcock and Scully takes my case they're really good detectives.
My FIL is straight up Hitchcock, he's just as kind and just as clueless.  I randomly die laughing during when Hitchcock does something he would do.
scully is such a wholesome character
Jake: Hey Scully, did you know Amy is super cool?"

Scully: No way! Can I get your autograph ma'am?
He used to be Amy's best friend
Scully has a big heart, it's the size of a giraffe.
So innocent but also so gross lol
I wish we got a full version of his back stories that got cut off
WHICH EPSIODE NOWWWWW 😭😭
I feel like scully is the only normal one
Scully is one of the kindest dudes in the series
Yeah this came to mind as well. 

Not that I want to overthink a throwaway line in the episode, but how sweet is it that Scully overheard Jake talk about how he’s staying late for work, and without any prompting, offers to stay and help? 🥺
I hope the two of you are doing well
Hitchcock is definitely gross but his "no more alimony, baby!" line after his ex dies is stellar.
I love you too.
Does he do things that make you call him Joke Peralta?
He used to consider Amy his best friend
"Those are all the types of Diabetes I have."
*proceeds to throw up sandwich*
awwww i bet it presses on his other organs!! <3
Giraffe's\*

His heart isn't the size of a full giraffe... I think
Because Hitchcock is just the worst influence on him 🤣
I'm not sure of the ep name all I known in that cold cut they will be talking about mama magalione and one of the guy comes as an IT guy to fool and delete the server
Ticking clocks season 6 ep 14
Season 6, Episode 14 "Ticking Clocks"
Only all the time. But I’ve never thought to call him that.
his organs cuddle
All of you who responded are the loml 💖💖
Shed a few tears on my recent rewatch.. 
meep morp zeep 🤖
I usually have a couple actors in my head that could have been casted for a role instead of the one that got it, but no one could’ve done holt like Andre. This show really had a great synergy between the writers and actors, it’s hard to imagine most of them being played by anyone else
When I saw this ending I just knew that Andre was going to say that line and I was so happy when he did, it summed up everything about the Jake and Holt relationship and it was so well acted by Andre as always.
I didn't know that Andre died a few years ago at 61 😭
</3
Ok love the spoilers
Just finished my first watch amazing tv show
remember

Boyle: But why don't we take this map and this sextant and chart a course to the restaurant?

Holt: Title of your sextant tape

Jake: Ah, did not work at all, but I love that you attempted it — title of your sextant tape

😭 rip andre
The entire cast was perfectly done. I still can't believe Andre is gone
few years? 🥲 he did in December of 2023
What even is the spoiler here?
Great to hear that
Whoops, I read too quickly and thought it said 2021
It says rip captain
NOOOOO I was tryna be sarcastic
How serious are you being?
It’s not a spoiler the actor  passed away 😖, this is real life pal 
I got that.
What do you mean?
Well I wasn’t gonna look it up to confirm it buddy
Ok
It's not a spoiler 
It's about the actor
It's been 3 years since it ended. Don't sub if you don't want spoilers 🙄
Thank youuuuuu. I wasn’t gonna look it up cuz I didn’t wanna confirm if holt died
You should still tag for spoilers if you are posting something about the last part
XD fair enough 
Nws
Have you even watched the show?
Maybe unsub until you are done with the show.
What spoiler is there to tag you donkey anus?
Up to season 5
I was never subbed in the first place this was my first time on the sub😭
chill, no need to insult people.
Already answered that
Thank you
Well… We’re well into October 
After posting this image in May… I felt obligated to post in October too!
https://www.reddit.com/r/brooklynninenine/s/C04b8Bob6X
Which opens up a scary question 

What has he been writing on his reports
this one thinks October 16th is mid-October
Can someone get this LUNATIC some rye?
When you posted it originally on May 18, was it 4pm? (Or close?) (In your time zone?)
Moments like this are a bit over the top. Like how can Jake be soo good in his job but he has no idea which month he is in? He has to sign a form or some paperwork with date every day.
you couldn't have waited a day or two?
I'm literally watching this scene as I scrolled this post :O
Somehow everyone assumes that Jake is the lunatic in this scene, while Gina is the one always casually remodeling her world as she sees fit. Don't remember anything else about the episode, but I'm fully convinced it's May outside and not October.
may 18th is my birthday :)
He should have known it was october for the halloween heist hes been planning for a year
Sarge or Amy are probably either fully writing his report for him or just fixing all the typos and not questioning it.
r/flairchecksout
Didn’t terry did his paper work quite often (like with the broken window thing
Sometimes the mind just slips. I got an email this week asking for something from May 11, but they meant October 11. This scene was all I could think of lmao.

Tbh, the only reason I remember the date is because I can look at the calendar on my computer. Back in school, I could barely remember the year, let alone the month or day. There’s too many other things to remember to have space for that info too!
The one holt had been planning for 18 months

That he would of won without Amy getting involved
True
I think terry corrected his paper work

But for the broken window thing it was probably Terry's job to sort out given he's the Sargent so any damage like that is his responsibility as Jake is his responsibility
Would have or would've.
Up, down, then separate 🤝🏻
3 seasons later, Holt speed mentors Amy and it includes professional handshake. 😆
Probably the same place she was going to take the power pose seminar... 😂
The best "where" is Amy while with Jake's sister. The delivery is both horrifying and funny
I think she attended a seminar by business legend Jack Donaghy. I attended one of his power-point seminars; he taught us how to effectively and powerfully point with our fingers to drive home arguments.
This is equivalent to

“I know how to kiss, I have read books”.
The Janitors's garage. 

Scrubs crossover anyone?
*Up, Down, then Separate --* title of my sextape.
I'm be both curious and afraid to ask lol
Probably had the class in New Handshire
episode??
Seminars for handshakes is crazy 💀
“Where?” Is so hilarious because literally, where? 😂😂😂😂😂
And getting what you want by using your body! Uh oh, I hope it doesn’t get too sexual
No, that was later on. Jakes hair suggests this is beginning of series.
He taught me how to shave.

He taught ME how to shave.

Where?
The best one word question is when Jake said how? To tank a huge football player looking dude when he said a prison guard beat him up haha
Your comment made me so happy. I rotate between rewatching Brooklyn 99 and 30 Rock.
Don't forget the power of hand-shakefulness, one of the pinacles of six sigma
Yes, please. Imagine the Nine-Nine arresting Mickhead for another murder. Or Turk and JD for stealing pudding. Or Elliot and Carla for prostitution. Or Dr. Cox for destruction of hospital property. Or Dr. Kelso for a string of barbershop service theft. Or Janitor for general Janitor things.

Dang, Scrubs cast are criminals.
I Hope it doesn’t get too sexual, title of your sex tape
‘Twas a joke.
Yeah, this screenshot is of their bet, nearly a year BEFORE the beginning of the series, and Amy's power pose seminar was in the Tactical Village episode. Point is, you can go to two different seminars held by the same school/foundation/etc and whether the handshake seminar or the power pose seminar came first has no impact on what my original comment was implying.
Huh!  And around the ankles, that is a tough spot!
Also when Hitchcock was choking on his shoelaces 😅😂 “HOoW?!”
I think i need a scene with the Janitor and Pimento.
They have to track down someone who escaped from a metal institution and reeks of beef bullion.

Hooch *is* crazy.
But seriously, what is taking so long?
You will not win me over with your use of ‘twas.
Yeah, no, i was just slyly mentioning how funny it is that you can tell what season we’re in, just by Jakes hair. I said it formally because my mind says stuff in Holts voice sometimes :)
I was just commenting on the fact that you can tell what time we’re in by Jakes hair, sorry🥲
I was thinking armpits or legs.\
But to each their own, I guess.
Ugh i was hoping i could add a gif of that episode!!!
Also the title of your sex tape.
‘Twasn’t trying to
It’s a friends quote.  I was just hoping to give someone from r/unexpectedfriends a treat
One of my favourite pre-generic .
I love so much Holt's reaction. 
"I'll tell you the entire story tonight" fucking sends me loool
This one and the marshmallow one always make me 😆
Holt's arc through the show was great! Season 1 Holt wouldn't have tolerated it!
What is "pre-generic?"
This was my fave cold opening and an exceptional follow-up. I remember binging that series when it dropped and had to immediately rewatch that. Pure gold.
Gotta' love that oxymoron "full half inch"...
I love his relationship with Kevin. His instinct to tell his husband this prank is so wholesome.
Holt needed a an experience with prank Sinatra himself, Winston bishop
[Clip of the scene](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dhEA25VhyJU).
I love him sm🤣🤣🤣🤣
One of my favorite cold opens was Holt being unexpectedly excited about the full bullpen.
I still cannot figure out how they pulled that off
Never saw him calling kevin lol
I cannot imagine how long he makes that story when he gets home to Kevin.
That's one of my favorite too. Another one in the same vein: "We got the salad forks. Can't believe it, a second fork? Who do we think we are!?!"
Sad he’s dead
I often find myself rewatching this exact scene when I really need a pick me up. His dedication to his character, combined with his laugh in this scene just put me in such a good mood.
Such a great joke!! Kills me everytime. Andre was magnificent in his role as Holt. 🫶🏻
His laugh always sends me 😂😂😂
This is one of my favorites too. The way he's so excited that they got him. It's so wholesome.
Is it possible Holt knew about their prank ahead of time and decided to sarcastically play it over the top? Absurd prank -> absurd overreaction?
My favorite Holt scene is…  [this](https://youtu.be/mU7IUprPqag?feature=shared)

HOW DARE YOU, DETECTIVE DIAZ! I AM YOUR SUPERIOR. BONE?! BONE?! BONE!!

With Amy wincing, and Rosa giving zero Fs while being yelled at.
"well that was a fun several moments now there have been several homicides" THE LINE DELIVERY 🙌
Pre-generic?
[deleted]
Especially since it’s after the intro…
"Well, that was a fun few minutes, anyway, there's been multiple cases of homicide"
My favorite phone bit with Kevin is when he has to stay to help Jake get the dentist to confess and he calls Kevin, says he won’t be able to make it and the tickets are under the name Raymond Holt and then spells his name
I know right! Because that IS the entire story, what is left to say?
Marshed mellow
I think it’s mostly because Boyle knows food more than the other characters. And he’s good friends with Holt. Amy definitely would know what kind of binder he’d use and Boyle wouldn’t.
The marshed mallow gets me every time. I think Boyle knew holt the best, even more than Amy.
Machine is learning 🤖
He’s due for an exuberance update
The scene before generic. 
To be honest I didn't know how to say properly in English, so I tried like this 🫢
I love that too. It reminds me of Sam telling Pipping "You've had a whole half already" when he goes to buy a pint.
I don't know , I just can say. , they're crazy
I think he spends the whole night explaining to Kevin about that
Despite the no cop talk policy
Yes , miss u captain meep morp
How is it absurd? It was a full half inch!
The point is the prank is so nothing, like Jake complains about when he does it, but Holt acts like it was a masterminded plot. 


Holt would never even consider such a prank, it's completely outside his wheelhouse, so he's completely floored by every aspect of it. 


It's spot on in-character Holt from my view. He has an established history of over the top reactions to relatively small things by this point, and has literally never engaged in a prank, so this small prank was the height of comedy to him at that moment. 
I always felt the same.

It's inconsistent with both the types of things the show has already shown them doing and it's our character to Holt to not understand how they did a simple thing. Could have worked better if he just felt something was off when he returned and then once he figured it out appreciated the smallness of the prank.
Which I imagine means that Holt narrated the story but not the entire story during the intro
Fun? He was never fun. You take that back!
Ahhhhhhhhahahahahahhahaa I just watched that one and missed the part where he spells out his name but I can imagine it and I'm dying 😂😭😂😭
YOU JUST SAID THE WHOLE THING 😂
The giggle sends me every single time
I think Boyle and Holt and one of the furthest from each other out of the whole group, not including hitcock and Scilly that'll never work with Holt lol
Meep morp zorp
[deleted]
Ah, gotcha. Usually scenes like this that jump right in and play before the credits are called a "cold open." They don't always have to include jokes or punchlines like in B99, but it's common in other comedies and sitcoms.
You mean before the theme song? If that’s the case, it’s called a “cold open” in English.
Hey, in case no one has told you yet, this is called a "cold open"
That's called a hot close
So fun fact here, and a lot of people don't know this, but the scene that plays before the intro music is usually called a "cold open."

Don't tell too many people, though, we're trying to keep it hush hush.
If you’re still wondering, this is called a cold open in English
The little silly pranks I think Kevin has to make exception for because it’s not about a case, it’s about coworkers who actually treat Raymond like he matters.
That's what I told her!
That is true.
Like plain scones.
Yeah it’s kind of a background thing but hilarious if you notice it
You added a zorp?
Yes , thank you
Thank you for the full explanation 💪
Yes exactly, thanks 👍
Ahahah, it's your lucky day today , you're the 5th person to tell me that , you won one upvote.
Sincerely, Raymond Holt
Thank you for keeping me in confidence ✅
Cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool . 
I think i can't forget about it now .
oh shoot, that's a good point. it never occurred to me that holt would enjoy being involved in jokes, bets, and pranks because he was never involved in them when he was a detective
I was thinking marshmallows, or the time he was right about Amy being late cause she was at the bank. But yeah, the scones are a good example too.
P l a i n   S c o n e s
I know Jake added a zorp in s1 when he first met Holt, and I believe inbetween when Holt referenced it it's been with and without the zorp, but I like it so I used it
HOT DAMN!
Two contractions in one sentence?

You couldn't possibly be S1 Holt, must be late-series Holt.
That’s CAPTAIN Raymond Holt. You are an imposter.
i'm pretty sure it was always zeep not zorp
#BINGPOT!!
Holt makes contractions when he's lying 🤥
Keep morp zeep
Which is a habit he picks up in later seasons!

BINGPOT!
True ahahah
My boyfriend and I both love B99, so I made him a Captain Holt birthday card!
Did I get the robot voice right? You'll have to ignore the crappy print quality and my atrocious cutting skills, but I'm hoping the text comes across as Captain Holt 😊
It is perfect. I’d be incredibly happy to receive such a beautiful card. Just add a balloon arch to make it perfect. 🤩
Number of years, not amount. 

Don’t disrespect the captain like that.
[Hello During a Random Dessert, The month and day of which coincide numerically with your expulsion from a uterus](https://pbs.twimg.com/media/E3J37efXEAAV3XU.jpg)
Guys, we missed u/BPD-and-lipstick's birthday, and it was a big one. I was in Ecuador.
For me Holt would say something like: 


Today is the day you were born on & you are going to celebrate it by consuming too much sugar and alcohol at Shaws. Enjoy your years as you get older.

Sincerely Captain Raymond Holt
Omg I love this
OP, why? This image is WILDLY inappropriate. There’s a certain amount of professionalism to be expected. It’s a birthday, not Mardi Gras
I hope the inside simply says,

'Regards'
Great idea, will do the same
Love the idea. Also sounds like something they would have said during the game of Did captain Holt say it
RIP Captain Holt
Ngl I could actually picture Captain Holt saying that in a birthday card. Btw what a nice card for your BF.
I love that! And I love B99! And I extra love Raymond Holt! We miss you Andre Braugher! Hate that you’re gone from this world♥️👻🌈
Why so sentimental?
He looks so ecstatic! He and KCoz must’ve just boned.
I miss him so much. Beautiful job 👍🏼
Sincerely, Raymond Holt
I need to remember this
Absolutely, phenomenal.
This is beautiful, I will have to do the same for the respective birthdays of my companions.
a "sincerely, Raymond Holt." Would have been perfect here!
Amazing work 😂 i would love this
Haha that's great. Good job!
Is it weird that I read your wish to your boyfriend in Captain Dads voice😅
lol!!! 😂
Oh I’m making something like this for my boyfriend. This is great
This is excellent
This is awesome! You’re awesome!
Noice!
Holt would have specified the amount of time since the event
Yeah, I can hear it
Its absoloutely perfect and funny!! 😁😁
I'm thieving this 🫣
That’s very good, Captain Dad would approve.
I love this lolll 🥲
Now if this isn’t love
This is awesome OP! Definitely gave me inspo for my friend’s bday coming up (he loves b99). But why did you put a picture of Captain Holt on there? If you love someone, you’ll remember what they look like…

My card would probably say:

I would feel trepidation at the prospect of a [insert friend’s name]-less existence. Enjoy a marshed mallow on your special day. Regards.
“*Add* a balloon arch”??? 

Nay, you must *birth* her…
I'm glad you like it! And I was going to add a balloon arch, but I needed to keep the card small to make sure I could make an envelope for it, as I've made it out of cardstock, not done a custom card from a greetings card company. The balloon arch would have made it too big 😅
VIINDICAATION !
Thank you! I knew there was something off about the text, but I couldn't put my finger on what it was! It may also be because I'm from the UK, some amount of years is common to say in the particular region of the UK I'm from. It could also just be the large amount of bad grammar in my area, though, so I'm not discounting it being a learned phrase, rather than a correct one for English vs American English 😂
I love that scene, and you're also partially correct, my birthday was in August, wasn't a big one, though 😂
I said my "puppy-cat" got sick.
I'm glad! I know there's already Captain Holt birthday cards out there, but they didn't capture the message I wanted, most of them are just the "can't you tell by my completely blank face that I'm ecstatic" trope
You had me in the first half 😂 impressive Captain Holt impression, though, I actually thought you were seriously upset for a second 😂
It will now! 😂
That's the vibe I was going for!! I feel like it'd fit nicely with that scene
Thank you!
I know, Captain Dad would be dismayed I showed so much emotion
BBBOOOOO9NNNNEEEE
Thank you! He finds Captain Holt hilarious, so I figured it was probably a good card to make him 😂
That's exactly what I was going for!
Thank you! And yeah, I didn't want to buy a generic card, or overpay for a custom one, so I decided to make one!
Thank you!
Thank you! I've wanted to get him a B99 card for a few years now, but all the Captain Holt ones I could find easily are regarding his unreadable face, not stuff he'd actually say, so I decided to make one! I'm glad so many people like it
VINDICATIOOOOOOOON!
I’m pretty sure we mean you must make and birth an actual balloon arch. It should be large in size and majestic AF.
would change card to cardstock as well
The capital of Ecuador is Quito
I feel like this is literally something he’d say lol
Vindication!!!
Detective Diaz I am your SUPERIOR OFFICER!
Oh, I'm not changing anything about it 😅😂 I just wanted to share my creation with the community and get feedback on if it was close enough to be passable as Captain Holt, I knew there was something off about the text, but it'd be too much hassle and ink to reprint everything and make it again
So you’re a liar like Terry now?
Do I have terrible taste or did the mafia really work for him
Is it the earring or the hair? 

Side note: I think all the Jersey Shore guys are alright, minus Vinny.
His hair sells his look
I loved mafia Jake but wish they kept the continuity that he was undercover for 6 months vs the 60 days when pimento was introduced
Mafia Jake and 90s reunion Santiago, that’s the stuff right there
Mafia Jake is 🔥
We deserved a few more episodes of Mafia Jake 🥵
Jake lady hands? Yeah he looked dope
I loved mafia jake
The meatballs were a little dry though.
I'd choose Mafia Jake over Larry Sherbert
Andy’s just hot 🤭
Keep it in your pants, santiago!
Na for real my guy pulled it off ... although it's a shame the meatballs were a little dry!
Mafia Jake was hot af, like idk why, but he was.
I don’t know but he has so much bad cologne on I can smell it from here.
I've a new crush now, guys! Thank you OP!
And they didn't make him wear a tie
Yes please!!! And the DDC look!
I’m on terrible taste team here
Andy Samberg was my first crush on a guy for a reason, Mafia Jake was *flaming*
The necklace and hair
I thought I was the only one!
it worked VERY well for him. I am putting together a presentation of jake peraltas best looks for my bf and this look is featured heavily
mafia jake was smoking hot
Andy Samberg could wear a potato sack and still look cool
Unpopular opinion but think he looked attractive with the frosted tips
Jake in jail was chefs kiss. Sublime 🤌🏾
I literally thought I was the only one.
Hope he likes his meatballs dry
Mafia Jake = Charlie Puth
The hair, the earring, the chest, the shiny suit, it’s all really working for him 🤙
Yes.
It can be both things.
I can’t believe i’m saying this but I hope Jakey the Jew
He was absolutely 😚🤌🏻 chefs kiss in that episode
I’d say it’s both
Everything works for him
Jake would be a great criminal
gangster checkin' out dat ass.
All I taste is Jake and he tasty
You are guido-sexual accept it, embrace it.
Nah I see it
I loved the song! When I get to that episode, I replay the song at least three times.
I'm getting feelings looking at this pic so it's definitely not just you
Andy Samberg just does it for me. I love a geeky little handsome guy
looks like a bar mitzvah boy
Ok course he shouldve been a undercover
Yes.
Confident in shape dude, it is ok to be attracted.
Kiryu???
I think mafia really works for him too
Yes
Smooth operator !
Honestly same lol
Mafia Jake was in a fast trip to be the new mob boss.  
We were on the verge of greatness.
I wanted more of Mafia Jake. He has always wanted to be in a situation where he's seen as a traitor and then emerge as the hero. This could've been that situation
no cuz it did
This. Also, Beef Baby and that accent he does during Operation Beans, lol.
Let's just say, you have a type! Lmao
He was just waiting until the old guys kissed him.
Mafia Jake, 99 Jake, florida Jake...yes please 😜
He was the most handsome he's ever been in this episode imo
Looks like a twink and I'm all for it!
Fine as hell
i may be stupid... i saw this and i was like 'what do you mean?? *he* worked for the mafia, not the other way around' ....
OP I bet your a zoomer because only the generation that normalized the broccoli haircut can love this hair
nah, hes hot
i’ve always thought he looks life charlie puth here
Smash, next question
He definitely should have quit the force to become a criminal. 
Mafia Jake was hot af
Genuinely thought I was looking at Jonathan Groff for a good thirty seconds before I read what sub this is
It worked for him lol
The mafia look worked for Jake specifically when he was wearing the suit. The tracksuit he wears later in the episode looks like shit
Almost had me go full Boyle
Boyle is that you?
He was! Idek what it is but I love mafia Jake. 😭
I LOVED that look on him..... ❤️❤️
Two things can be true.
hell yeah
JAKE IS ALWAYS HOT
He looks like a Far Cry villain
Rosa undercover in The Golden Child was kinda hot
that hair REALLY worked for him
Same he classy
Terrible taste 😅 he's deliberately slimy in this arc
This is the most popular b99 opinion dw
Yikes
YES! Mafia Jake isn't talked about enough
Terrible taste my friend
it's the whole aura i think + mafia Jake has a different type of confidence from detective Jake + he changed the cadence of his voice
Yeah that’s for every person in this world
Yeah that retcon always confused me why did they do that??
Whoa, I watched the series like 10 times and never noticed that retcon. What was even the point of doing that?
I always interpreted it as it was intended for 6 months but then it ended up being 60 days. 
Yeah and they said he did a bunch of jobs for the mafia with a guy named Derek but then retconned it to just computer stuff
they retconed it? damn watched the whole show not even knowing that lmao💀
Definitely a continuity error, but I love making up stories to fit continuity errors, so here you go. 

Jake was fired from the NYPD and that exact night is when he met the mafias. They got to know each other, but obviously mafias are very cautious so they didn’t let him in the group for a long time. For a while, they were just drinking buddies at the bar, while the mafias were secretly checking Jake out. For 4 months, they hang out together as friends. And finally, Jake’s hard work paid off and he was finally a part of the group. So technically, he was only undercover in the group for only 2 months (60days) because the first 4 months, he was just a jobless guy who had nothing to do in the morning and who had drinks with the mafia occasionally.
Wow I can’t believe I missed that
It was a period of 6 months but was only in contact with people for a total of 60 days reported as it took time to build up trust.
i mean total length of mission 6 months, 60 days actively undercover can explain it
Well, three months is 60(ish) workdays, so maybe we can live with that.
Ooohhhhhhhhh mama…
Yeah, he took lots of bribes.
Spin-off B99 series: Low Life Livin'!
Andy literally doesn’t age so it’s possible!
Make it drama a la Sopranos
That’s the code word! Let’s move!
But then he and Charles couldn't be Tip Buds for all of 2 seconds
Lips. Swoon
It's probably Turnpike ...the ladies of Swampsgiving are really into it
This is my “that sign can’t stop me because I can’t read” moment because my sense of smell is awful for some reason
the hair and the earring 🤭
It’s a REALLY good look
Please post on reddit.
Or a pillow case 🤣🤣🤣🤣
I don’t mind frosted tips…
I was just going to say that too.
Weird thing is I don’t think Charlie Puth is cute but you aren’t the only one to say he looks like him with that hair
Stuff can be two things!! Court case with Sophia
looking for this
I think you mean "old man's kiss"
Florida didn't... (don't eat the burrito)
And everyone would call him the Handsome Bandit
“Dear Vulture, enjoy my big white ass.”-Jake 🤣🤣🤣🤣
Gorilla Juiceheads are my future
I’m not even attracted to Jake in any other episode
Number one broccoli head hater I’m more of a earring lover lmao
My friend did say every guy I’ve dated looks like “they live on a farm and/or can’t spell their own name” so you’re probably right
And mafia Jake dresses better 😂
I SMELL BACON
i will not. i will… not
True
What does retcon mean?
I bet some writer remembered there was a 6 and no one went back to check if it was 60 days or 6 months
I think to make it seem less impressive.

6 months undercover is actually pretty awesome.
I always thought it was to make Jake look extra dumb for comparing, either way a bad decision
People downvoting you but I’m just gonna ignore everything and pretend this is what happened because it’s better than shitty continuity
Yeah this is presumably what happened. It would be crazy if he was just in right away. Plus Bianca the mistress barely knew him. I understand that Franky would probably have a lot of people working for him but it makes it more believeable that she wouldn't know him if it was 2 months instead of 6.
Alright, keep it in your pants, Santiago.
*vandalises wedding avenue*

Edit: *lawfully vandalises wedding avenue*
Who wouldn’t want to smell like a hot New Jersey breeze?
For me, the hair and most importantly, the smile 😁
Um. Ok
Haha yes! My bad xD
True, yeah, Andy Samberg is crazy attractive but frosted tips and a soggy burrito aren’t a good look on anyone
I stand corrected
But this is the opposite of that. Looks like a high class douchebag here.
The tracksuit and gold chain had me on my knees
AND GUESS WHAT ELSE, CAPTAIN
It's short for Retroactive Continuity. Basically it's a way of making something make sense after it happens instead of setting it up beforehand. It's usually done poorly, which is why it has a negative connotation
Erase it didn’t happen I think
At least they knew better not to assume 60 minutes.  


Jake only had lunch with the mafia.
Which is crazy, because they have jokes that are cold for literal.seasons that get brought back, like Scully's wife/dog Kelly, and Boyle's obsession with washing hair
Oh that’s exactly where it’s going.
it’s the mafia swagger✨
JAKEY DON'T DIG ON SWINE!!
Very cohesively put. I always knew what it meant but not how to define the word, thank you
6 minutes, he talked about the weather with the mafia
And karaoke-d the Piano man with them
60 months
AND YOUR MOTHER! AND YOUR MOTHER!
6 seconds, he had sex with the mafia
That's some finger talent
6 decades
9 months-
All of them? Thats actially impressive
6 minutes, they Joel-ed together
Title of your sex tape
6 kilometers, he went on a jog with the mafia
What’s the best joke in the series?
yeah i dunno why the image quality is like that. it was the only picture i could find.
When Holt gets kidnapped and manages to send a garbled text message to Jake.  and Scully says maybe it's because he's gagged.
Charles: 🥹☺️“The only black male I want anything to do with is you”
Holt: 🤨🧐”that was incredibly inappropriate”
Madeline, you’ve aged.
Scully throwing the fire extinguisher in the elevator to keep the door open
Pimento - Okay, here are the ground rules:

You can kick me, punch me, pull my hair.

I am A-ok being stabbed.

Biting and scratching are ON the table.

You CAN use fire.

Jake - These are the ground rules? Is there anything off limits?

Pimento - Damn, man... You got something really sick you wanna do, huh? Oh, you little pervert. All right, I like it! Don't tell me, surprise me. Ooh, this is gonna be fun!
My favorite is when they're at the Canadian airport trying to stop security from taking away Jakes dad and Scully says something in French and then he says "oh no I told them we were turnips" then tries again but just says in English "WE ARE TURNIPS. Nope that wasn't it"
Captain Holt: Good news is our evaluation will be done by Deputy Chief Brandt. We have a good rapport. He was once my captain.

Charles: So he's kinda like our grand-captain?




Captain Holt: That is amazingly funny.
[The thigh gap] is my favorite part of a woman. There is nothing more intoxicating than the clear absence of a penis.
"It's the same color as my color blindness awareness ribbon"
"Diaz and I have that kind of easy chemistry where we finish each other's-"

"Sentences"

"Please, don't interrupt me"
Terry: "I've closed a lot of cases for you."

Holt: "And yet crime has continued."
The doctors said all my bleeding was internal, that’s where the blood is supposed to be ..
Scully when Amy tells him he and Hitcock are responsible for the seating arrangements at Rosa and Pimento's wedding.."Smart move, Amy. I've been called the Leonardo Da Vinci of sitting on my ass."
The Diane Wiest infection cold opening.
When Jake moves Holt's podium a half inch and Holt thinks it's so hilarious he has to call Kevin

"Yes, Kevin, a full half inch"
"Do you know the worst thing about being a black, gay police officer? 

The discrimination."
Madeline i didnt see you there, i thought you were an old leather chair
I love it when in the season 3 finale (I think?) the squad is trying to find Holt in the hospital based on the chocolate markings but they can't figure it out and they need Holt's text to find him, and then when Terry appears, he says "The captain marked the H-s in chocolate, which I instantly connected to the giant helipad H we're standing on right now." 

And then the camera shows the whole roof and the giant H. I don't know why but that moment just cracks me up every time without fail.
Dr Yee was in the house???? THE Dr Yee?
1. "Sticks and stones, Raymond?"

"Describing your breakfast?"






2. "I should go out there and spread my.... wings"

"Legs"

"Go out there and spread my legs? What kind of garbage advice is that?"






3. "Black Fred, think fast."

"No, no, ouuuuhh, that was a gun, man"
The one where Holt reads his rival for commissioner's tweet that's in all caps and he yells it
Yes, I should be the bigger person.

Shouldn’t be hard, considering Madeline isn’t technically… a person.
When Santiago and Peralta are in hospital and the old woman comes to them and says mixed race kids are the best, and Peralta responds “ohhhhhh you said words”
Rosa: Okay, we have time for one more question. 

Hitchcock: Oh! Ooh, ooh, ooh! 

Rosa: Nope. Absolutely not. We're done. 

Hitchcock: Smart. It was not tasteful.
I was Hula Hooping....

It's an early joke, may even be the 2nd episode but it doesn't get old
"If it shows Madeline, be sure not to look straight into her eyes."

"Why, because we‘ll turn to stone?"

"No, because her eyes are ugly."
Which episode is this joke?
One of my favorites is 

“Diaz and I have that amazing chemistry where we finish each others-“
“Sentences”
“Please, don’t interrupt me. I promise that kind of nonsense will not happen on camera”
'But why would you leave that windowless supply closet that we locked you in? Ah yes, *hearing* it, I understand'
Hey puzzle chick unscrambled this: you’re going to ail-j
This B needs a C in her A.
It’s one bun to none son
Wunch: Sticks and stones, Raymond.
Holt: Describing your breakfast?
Commissioner! How's your (PUMP) "wife?" (PUMP PUMP)
Oh, this is easy! Boyle talking about how him and Holt share(d) a bank. Boyles' eagerness turned into a horrified scream guts me everytime
>Meat. From the street. Sounds like a fun treat.

>[Chuckles] 

>I'm a poet... and I didn't even know I was rhyming those words. But it happened anyway.

https://youtu.be/r-okDVcqGH8?si=KsBOWRXYdWjit3u7
Not really a joke, but the delivery is god tier: 

“YOU TOOK THE WRONG FLUFFY BOY!”
“Did you eat him Terry?”

“Well, keep me posted. My dogs are barking.
The witch is dead! BAGEL! BAGEL!
Bing-- pot! Nope I was gonna say bingo, but then I was like, "jackpot's better," but then it was too late; I was halfway through the word.
Pimento’s eyes when he sees the bag of cocaine Holt gets for Rosa and Jake when they’re going after Hawkins - that whole scene is great, but just the way his eyes go SUPER wide when he sees it always kills me
There is this joke where Rosa says that Captain Holt is impossible to read, and it cuts to a scene where he says with a straight face and an even tone of voice “Thats the funnies thing i ever heard”
Hitchcock having 2 creep kits.
When Hitchcock says “I could stand next to the altar and vape” at Charles’ dads wedding
"A bold personality, we know what that's code for: she's a bitch." 

Holt is amazing 🤣
“Just stand next to me and say yes sarge”

“Okay sarge”

“Cmon man”
Jake: Terry turned my spine into a loose stack of pebbles.
When Amy mentions black mold and Jake says "BLACK mold!? That's racist, right Terry?!" and Terry's like, "Whaat?"
- the entire sequence when jake and charles are chasing a fugitive, and they pick a sense to rely on. Jake picks hearing and boile picks... smell.. 

the entire time he goes into smelling-mode "mh hmmmm" with that signature boile look and then at the end when they both hear something and jake goes "noise over there" and boile almost at the same time "smell over there"

- the gender reveal cake scenes are also absolute gold:
first the "cleaning", then the "OH SHIT/FUCK" from jake, then the entrance of charles and then lastly, the "give me a minute" for charles to get his happy emotions out and he has to apologise for the weird snort sound..


*damn i need to watch the show again, which will be my 40th run*
"Maybe I don't have an arch nemesis because I solve all my crimes....."
“Good idea! I can sleep on the floor!”
But I'm not in denial... I'm in denial!
The hula hoop classes that Holt and his husband took, which made him fracture his wrist. “ why am I telling you all this? Because no one will ever believe you…”
Charles:  “Excuse me.  I have to go make urines … in de toilet.”  
Jake:  “Yeah, that’s how we say words.”
“All right, everybody, just relax. We're still gonna have a great time. If there's one thing I know, it's how to sneak out to a party without your parents finding out. I used to do it all the time. Well, I did it a few times. Once, to go to a Magic: the Gathering tournament. I got stuck in the window like Winnie-the-Pooh. There, okay? Now you know everything. My mom had to pull me back in by my ponytail. All right, let's party!”
If you get killed what happens to all your debt?

Loophoooole!
The Thanksgiving episode, Jake's dad telling him he has a half sister. And later in the hospital, when Jake's dad said "Oh I only told you about your sister?"

And Jake goes "Theres more?!?!?!"
“As Wunch says when she sees deodorant… I’m not buying it”

“As god said when Wunch tried to sneak past the gates into heaven… It ain’t happening honey!”

Honestly that episode is fantastic
*points at his "surf's up, beaches" shirt*

Holt: "It says 'beaches' instead of 'bitches' for... humor reasons."
I will always and forever love “Get woke, Scully.”
I’d say a hundred way tie anything Holt says insulting Wunch, but the two that stand out right now are:

“Calling me the devil, Raymond? How original.”
“No, I was calling you a goat. You goat.”

And

“Don’t look into her eyes.”
“Because we’ll turn to stone?”
“No, because her eyes are incredibly ugly.”
Black people can sell drugs
"but they're playing Uptown Funk!"

"I wouldn't care if they were playing actually music"
- I can see that scar from miles away.

- You must have FANTASTIC vision

- Or it was a GIGANTIC scar
Holt: "Diaz and I have so much chemistry we finish each other's-"

Rosa: "sentences"

Holt: "please don't interrupt me"
The entire Monty Hall problem scene:
Holt: it’s a math problem
Rosa: pass
Amy: oh ma ma
.
.
Holt: Do I have to teach you college level statistics?
Kevin: Do I have to teach high school statistics?
(Goes on)
Holt: …I need to leave a snide voicemail about kindergarten statistics.
"I'm going to play it. Brace yourselves. If it shows Madeline, be sure not to look directly into her eyes."

"Because we'll turn to stone?"

"No. Because her eyes are ugly."

Basically, the entirety of S07E07. One of the best overall. And my favourite.
Terry: Merry Christmas 

Hitchcock: Ho ho ho

Scully: I'm starving 

Terry: "I'm starving"? We had a thing going!
The joke that has made me laugh the most is when pimento was being drug by his doctor and he was outside of a very tall building, when jake tried to help him he said "am i helping" while going the opposite direction of the window. Best joke in the show
It's not sticky anymore because I'm so juicy!
*Terry, getting up from his chair and screaming in pain, trying to prove he doesn’t need help*

Holt: “you can’t have thought that went well for you.”
Hitchcock getting a tattoo of himself putting a barrel in his mouth
The cold open where they all predict what holy will say when he eats a marshmallow
When Holt comes in wearing the red hat and Jake/Charles stare at him 😂


Captain Holt: Well, Diaz and I have that kind of easy chemistry where we finish each other's-
Rosa: Sentences.
Captain Holt: Please, don't interrupt me.
mahn...this guy was funny...this one got me on the fl99r laughing
🦴

Sometimes I just look up the scene and give myself a good 15 minute laugh 🤣🤣🤣🤣🤣
*jump cut* [Holt's deadpan voice, reading out his eulogy] Madeline smells like dog crap. *jump cut*
Holt: “Fine!!! I was trying something and it didn’t work!!!”
When they’re playing the “Did Cpt Holy Say This” game and Jake says “Any smile that lasts longer than a second and a half is a con man’s ruse” 

And Holt replies with “yeh I said it… AND I MEANT IT”
“Are you talking to us or the fart?”
I have 3:
Scully's failed attempt at french where afterwards he just shouts "WE ARE TURNIPS".
Straight Holt.
The entire mumps episode.
I just love how when Holt calls Kevin, he says, "Hi Kevin, this is Captain Raymond Holt calling"
"Are you here to turn yourself in?"
[at the policeman’s ball]
Wuntch: you must know some moves Raymond, you were mentioned by name in the Monster Mash.
"In the end I guess we rubbed off on each other quite a bit. Title of your sex movie. Did I do that right?"
I love the visual gag of Hitchcock and Scully both wearing mustard costumes
HOT DAMN!
BOoOOoONE??!?!
You ready for that drink now Hitchcock?
Don’t mind if I do Scully.
“You hate looking at pictures of my twins. You said because they’re identical you didn’t need to see pictures of both”
Holt telling Jake he's drunk.
Do you know the hardest thing about being a gaybblack cop?

The discrimination.
"Cabbage." 

Kills me everytime s4 heist, Bill's safe word.
This B needs a C in her A
I have a few. I like one’s where they try to predict holts reactions or thoughts and he actually behaves differently then expected.  Think marshmallow bit with Charles or moving the podium prank.  

Kevin and Holts interactions, their “PDA” and just overall bland and serious tone with everything.  Example, making fun of reading fiction, or Holt in the bathroom asking Kevin to buy concert tickets. 

Finally, pimento “telling a joke or talking about a funny situation” but it’s really a horrific occasion. He starts cracking up and everyone else is looking at him in horror.
This is definitely a top contender with pimentos cathartic scream of love lmao
Every time Netflix previews the ‘one is your locker, the other one is a garbage dump’ scene - it always drags me back into another rewatch. 


It’s not even my favourite, its just solid
PAINNNNNN
This conversation made my wife laugh so hard, we paused the show and she nearly fell on the floor laughing.  
Charles: Well, I found all the worms. They're eating a fox corpse in the outhouse.  
Terry: Speaking of which, I'm getting hungry. What's for dinner?  
Jake: Dinner? [laughs nervously] Yes, of course. Dinner.  
T: Did you not pack any food?  
J: There's fresh fox!  
C: Oh, it's not fresh.
This B needs a C in her A
I gotta watch the series. I always felt I’d love the comedy and overall setup in it so idek why I didn’t watch it to this day
From which episode is this again?
Adrian, how are you?

Very bad
At work? Who ARE you? William Wonka?
Can you upload the image with less resolution I almost can read the dialogs
“Oh I’m sure the child is going to love that you put a steam locomotive whistle on a diesel train. I’m joking. He’s going to vomit when he hears that.” 

I lose it every time 😂
"We just need a blackmith, or a smelter, or a smeltman, no that cant be right"
The episode when Charles and Jake are trying to find out who framed Genevieve to get here out of jail—Charles response always makes me laugh out loud: 

Jake: “Getting in a little late there this morning, Boyle. Where you been?”

Charles: “Cursing out my own shadow for hanging out with a loser like me. Also an eye doctor appointment.”
BOYLE BINGO!! (Season 1, Episode 10)
I know it’s a popular one but “Are you really playing the gay card right now?” is always makes me burst
I love Holts' rant about doctors vs doctorates in The Box.
"Apparently that's a trigger for me." - Holt
"Yeah, apparently" - Peralta
The save the date (stds) invite scene
"I'm doing my best"  
"Tell that to my wiener!"  
(leans over to talk to his groin) "I'm doing my best!"
When Scully and Hitchcock were on a hunger strike. :  Rosa: "you're literally eating chips right now" 
Scully : "they don't count , my doctor said they have zero nutritional value"
STD Save The Dates
At the beginning of "The Box," Holt calls Kevin to cancel their dinner plans and says something along the lines of "the reservation is under Raymond Holt. That's H-O-L-T." The idea that he feels the need to spell his name to his own husband kills me every time.

Edit: Looked it up. The exact quote is, "Hello, Kevin. I won't be able to attend the opera. The tickets are under my name, H-O-L-T."
It’s very subtle, but when Gina sarcastically asks if Holt is a liar like Terry, and Holt says that he isn’t a “bunny buying coward” and Terry is just in the background like “what the hell”
When Holt indulges in humor. My fav is the episode of Wuntch’s debut.


“So, he’s kind of like our grand-captain.”


“………..That, is amazingly funny.”
Holt and Rosa's banter for the entire episode when Wunch dies "BAGEL! BAGEL! BAGEL!"
(The team realizes Amy is finally late and they are coming up with crazy excuses as to why she’s late)

Holt: hey! It’s 9am - why is no one working?

Jake: Amy’s a few minutes late and we’re trying to guess why.

Holt: I’d like to play. I’d say - she’s in line - at the bank. This is fun!

Jake: this is fun but you’re all wrong. She clearly slipped into a subway grate and is having terrible sex with a mole man. 

Amy suddenly runs in, frazzled!

Jake: Amy! You’re several minutes late, we were all worried sick. Care to explain yourself?

Amy: I’m just a few minutes late what’s the big deal?

Holt: you will tell us and tell us now!

Amy: I…had a little problem at the bank.

Holt: HOT DAMN!!!
Jake: I know this is the wrong takeaway from this case board, but I really love the new yarn you're using.

Charles: There are sparkles in it!

Jake: I noticed!
You knocked all the orange soda out of my cereal.
BOOOOOOOOOOOOOOONE!
When holt gives everyone bagels because Wunch died, and then afterwards when he tells Amy off for crying, and throws a bagel at her.
"Great, who are we killing? I won't do kids, that's a rule. BUT, that rule is negotiable if the kid's a dick"
Anything Captain Holt says. But what comes back to me is when they are looking for cheddar and have to dress up like the captain
“But if Marcus wants my number he can ask me for it”


“But who will tell him that?”
this is my favourite scene in the show
which episode is this?
When was this
“I did it. I killed him”
Just realized how many banger jokes Scully has delivered!! Truly an underrated character 🩷
Booooooonnnneeeee
BONE?!?!?
Thats Not a Joke ..
This is a good one
“The Captain marked his H’s with chocolate, which I *instantly* connected to the giant helipad on the roof!”


That line from the sand episode always cracks me up
Even worse when rid of context 😅😅😅
Terry should have been walking past in the background
I also loved how they changed the joke to fit in german too lmao. In German charles says "blackmailing is something that black sheeps do and you sir, are by far not a sheep. Just black"
It's the perfect Holt insult. Concise, cutting, irrefutable.
I wish I had a nemesis like Madeline Wunch
You have goop in your eye
I second this! I spit my drink out laughing so hard when I first saw it. The perfect insult with a 100% straight face - classic.
Takes a lot for me to LOL at telly when I'm alone but Hitchcock and Scully always. It's not funny, it's just... Hitchcock and Scully
I love that Rosa reacts the same way as Pimento, but she’s doing it just to mess with Jake.
Pimento to me is Ala Creed in the Office, or Rafi in the League. A character that is so over the top that I think any further air time and it would’ve ruined them. They get right up to the point of like “okay, I’m tired of this guy.” And then pull back for X amount of time to let him cool off
I love the show so much and it’s hilarious constantly, but this was the loudest and hardest I laughed.
Dang it
Nous sommes nevettes!
\*"Spirit in the Sky" intensifies as Scully runs to the bathroom\*

Though by the same token, I love when Jake is asking Holt if he can take Scully with him and Holt responds, "Sure, if I do something for you, you do something for me."
not security, the police. He was under arrest
Was waiting for this!!!
Charles’ non-verbal reaction to the compliment is actually a perfect example of one of my underrated  favorite parts of the show: a TON of the humor is done in reaction body language. Here, Charles’ bashful-but-hiding-that-he’s-pleased “oh stop it” motion and gaze aversion is perfect physical comedy and it happens in under a second. 

There’s a ton of these if you look out for them. In particular Rosa is often reacting to Holt with understanding and consideration/approval even when he’s saying ridiculous robot things, Jake when Charles asks Pimento “but how do you keep your eyes moist?”, Amy putting her hands over her heart gushing with pride as Jake does the FBP, Amy pointing and nodding enthusiastically with agreement when Charles says about Captain Holts house “I’ll bet it’s really fancy. Like…beauty and the beast fancy.”

Stuff like that. Enhances the hell out of a rewatch, looking for as many of these as you can find.
You know me, I see a pair of heavy weighted breasts, and all logic goes out the window
No it's not
What ep is this line from?
i am actually colorblind and this comment made me realize that they weren't being mean to scully and that the items were genuinely different colors
Right before this one ” i can be dynamic exclamation point”
"That kind of nonsense, will not fly"
I always reply this one so thank you for beating me to it. 😂😂😂
Jake: I'd love to give you a hug right now but the doctor says my body has the structural integrity of a chocolate souffle

Charles: Oooooooo
After seeing B99 memes fairly regularly (Self burn & Cool motive mostly), this was the one that finally got me to watch the show.
I quote that on the reg
This is GOLD!
Pretty sure that was scrubs
I've been eyerolled to, not about, Hitchcock
#LIKE YEAST?!
The best thing about the cold-open is Jake's blank and unimpressed stare when Boyle tells the joke.
Boyle doing everything to hold in the explanation of the joke til he bursts lmaoooo
This it for me too. Jakes reaction to it and Boyle looking like he'd been dying to make the joke all weekend is just brilliant!
And then says “I”ll tell you the entire story at dinner.” I laughed so loud that there was still so much left to tell that it will be dinner conversation.
hahaha the chuckle when he realized as well
How did you pull it off?
Anything referring to Holt’s sense of humor makes me crack up
Underrated
He's not gonna say that!
He's not going to say that
Yee only wrote the book on forensic facial reconstruction! He's a *rock star*!
OH MY GOD, YEE WAS IN THE BUILDING?!?!?
What black Fred? I’m the only Fred!

Yeah but they don’t know that!
KUDOS TO OUR BRAVE OFFICERS
Pam is such an underrated side character lol
Hitchcock and Scully have few lines, but man are they bangers
I love that because it’s one of the earliest signs of Holt’s amazing sense of humor.
"Because no one.... will ever believe you." >:)
The one where they seal Boyle’s face in plaster. I don’t remember the exact number.
S5 E8: Return to Skyfire
Oh my God
Just today , this scene.was running in my mind. Laughed to myself.
*’bund
Holt - commissioner…how’s your…….pump? 
Charles - you forgot to say wife. 
Holt - ahh! Good note.
Which episode is that, please?
*What dogs??*
That’s a pretty fucked up thing to say to me
You sick son of a bitch...
*deletes photo*
Also,


Roger Peralta : "There's a demon in our genes." (jeans)

Jake: "Title of your sex tape"

Roger: "No, the name of my sextape is Cockpit Larry and the Mile-high Stewardii"

Jake: "What?!"

Roger: "Stewardii. Its plural, for stewardess."
"Great stuff, Diaz. Just all day."
[In chorus] BLACK PEOPLE CAN SELL DRUGS ✊🏽
The sequence after Rosa tells him they need to bone is great, too. 

Holt, bouncing with rage and bracing the doorway to his office: "BooOOOoooone!?!?"
I really enjoyed this episode but it irked me that the math Holt couldn't comprehend was 'just' the Monty Hall problem. I get that it needed to be accessible to the audience but there's no way Holt would be stumped by something like that.
^[Sokka-Haiku](https://www.reddit.com/r/SokkaHaikuBot/comments/15kyv9r/what_is_a_sokka_haiku/) ^by ^ereenlois:

*Hitchcock getting a*

*Tattoo of himself putting*

*A barrel in his mouth*

---
^Remember ^that ^one ^time ^Sokka ^accidentally ^used ^an ^extra ^syllable ^in ^that ^Haiku ^Battle ^in ^Ba ^Sing ^Se? ^That ^was ^a ^Sokka ^Haiku ^and ^you ^just ^made ^one.
"KASE!"
how dare you detective Diaz, I AM YOUR SUPERIOR OFFICER


I love how his voice starts a whisper and ends up YELLING
Trick question! They're both your locker!

Ah, I should have known.
https://www.reddit.com/r/brooklynninenine/s/T7bWJ2gquF
Made worse by misspelling blackmail. 
And looking dejected, too
Yes, good thing he did not call her a dirtbag. That would make no sense.
I'm calling you a goat, you goat.
I giggle non stop for the mumps episode every time. But the part where they are poking mumps I lose the ability to breathe.
That whole scene is full of amazing lines by Jeffrey Characterwheaties
He's also kinda like Derick in the Good Place
I always butcher this and say "nous sommes novettz" when I'm texting this scene to someone.
lmao, yes that was clever. Also, when the squad is talking about how difficult it is to tell what emotion Captain Holt is conveying and Scully goes, and it's the angriest Captain Holt has been in the entire show "IF YOU DON"T GET YOUR ACT TOGETHER YOU WON"T LIVE TO SEE RETIREMENT", and Scully is all "You just don't know what he;s saying, you know"
Heterosexual you is such a dog!
The one with the blue flu, can't remember the number but it's season 8 and I'm pretty sure the episode is named blue flu
Honestly I think I saw these lines so many times that they lost their affect on me
[At about 1min mark](https://youtu.be/X1T6UnHcEmM?si=-Hxt3cYxQTZG4VJz)
🎺🎺🎺🎺🎺
I never understood the joke
And then immediately. "Theres been a murder"
It’s this line that makes the joke. That the two of them will laugh about all of the details at dinner!
Reminds me of Holt trying marshmallow for the first time!
He might
This line always makes me wonder what Pimento was like before he went undercover
This... babe needs a coconut in her arms?
*belt
My girlfriend and I floor each other with this line constantly!
The really long pause gets me every time
I was eagerly waiting for someone to reply this! Yes, it is absolutely hilarious. I love the way Rosa is completely fine with him just lashing out at her after her “suggestion”. Hehehe
What misspell? The joke was a wordplay Charles made by turning blackmail to black-male
AW YOU CAN’T BLACKMAIL ANYONE ANYMORE!
Ooh, they could’ve worked this into the episode where Terry is trying to prove to Holt that he doesn’t need everyone to like him.
Dirtbags are very useful!
KASE!!!!
Heynong Man
Heynongman, you mean the future suitor of the widow kulap?
Real talk though, Jason Mantzoukas is the world's greatest character actor and the only character actor I genuinely hope NEVER breaks character. Rafi from the League, Pimento from B99, Derrick from the Good Place... and let us not forget the glorious Dennis Feinstein from Parks and Rec.

He's just always chaotic, to the point of ALMOST being too much, but somehow not quite, and I always fucking *love* it.
Boyle's favourite actress is Diane Weist, which rhymes with Yeast. On the weekend he watched a bunch of her movies, so he joked that he got a 'big old Diane Weist infection' because it sounds like yeast infection.
What’s to understand? It’s a yeast infection joke
*marshed mallow
You’re worse than the vulture
_Ohhhhhhh....._ I thought you were saying, "This b ** ch needs a c** k in her a**."
Her satisfied smirk the next day when she was right lol
Homonym jokes only work out loud.
Best part of the vacuum
Clearly it's a compliment!
The widow Howl App
Also Jay from Big Mouth
His director character in Community was this exactly
Ok I had to google what a “yeast infection” was and yeah, I kinda see the joke now
[deleted]
Oh my God!
This fucking got me so good, them just dropping all innuendo and him saying it with the bleeps


So fuckin funny
Ok wet blanket
Disagree
That was my reaction!
Velvet. THHUNDERRR
[deleted]
You are not worthy of that name
Native English speakers know what a yeast infection is. Contrary to your initial point.
[deleted]
Ever thought about the demographic that watches Brooklyn nine nine?
Facts captain facts
Captain wasn't lying
"Heavy Breast"
Straight Holt is a DOG!
She was such a strong, female woman with nice heavy breasts. 🫱🫲
A straight man portraying a gay man acting as a straight man
Get some, get some
We miss you Captain 💔
My female wife
He’s nefarious
The woman needs to have heavy breasts too.
HOT DAMN!
I'm off to plow my mistress
Just noticed.

His golf shirt looks like the trans flag
“You know me. I see a pair of thick, weighty breasts, and all logic flies out the window.”

The hand gesture he does under "weighty breasts" really sells his point.
He distilled it down to the core factors though.
I still can't believe he left this plane.
Damn Straight Holt knows
Pow, pow pow
andre did deserve any emmy for playing holt
A great actor pretending to be a bad actor.
I enjoy nice, heavy breasts
"Heterosexual you is such a dog"
I absolutely loved it when he was acting like a straight man. 

“You know me. I see a pair of thick, weighty breasts, and all logic flies out the window.”

Dude was in my brain.
That's how you know Andre was a great actor
Wearing trans colors
I want Gina's sound app
XD was looking for this
There we go! 🤭
I was gonna pick that tag of yours. But I am not a human male. 😂 that was one of my favourite Holt lines. Making me laugh remembering that scene.
heterosexual Holt is such a dawg
https://nine-nine.vercel.app/
One of my favorite lines in the entire series
Are you a robot? "*Meep morp zeep* ***robot*** *captain*".
OMG HAHAH I LOVE THIS
That is amazing I did not know that existed
This is awesome, only missing vaginal Gandalf and some more wunch insults
I love how Nikolaj is under Boyle's seven times
vaginal Gandalf was a Jake quote
There is a Jake section in the link as well
The Best Cold Open
Chills, literal chills!
TELL ME WHYEEE
No, the best cold open ended with 

"...and no one will ever believe you."
“Oh my God, I forgot about that.”
I caught the clip on something random and started watching this show because of it.
Ooohhhh chillzzzzz. Who’s who?
I want to upvote this, but it's at 99 upvotes so I can't.
Y'all I am 100% serious when I say B99 has ruined this song for me. Fr fr.
And number 5…
It's clearly about butt sex.
Literal chills.
Ain't nothing but heart break~🎶
“You sick son of a bitch”
Same here!
You can upvote now!
Tuh-EEEEEEEEEEEeeeeeelllllllllllllll ME WHYEEE
Ainnntt notthinnn buttt aaa miiiiesssstaakeee
Tellll meeeee why
Eye never wanna heerya say
Number 5, bring it home!
I never wanna hear you sayyy
Wooooo!
B99 cast and crew tributes for Andre Braugher
**Social media posts from the cast:** Joe Lo Truglio (Charles), Terry Crews (Terry), Chelsea Peretti (Gina), Melissa Fumero (Amy), Dirk Blocker (Hitchcock), Joel McKinnon Miller (Scully), Marc Evan Jacobs (Kevin), and Kyra Sedgwick (Wuntch)

**And from the writers:** Norm Hiscock and Jeff Topolski
It's been a very long time since a death of someone I've never personally met, has hit me this hard.

Brooklyn Nine Nine will forever be one of my favorite shows and Holt will forever be my favorite character from said show. He brought so much joy, it's a shame he left us so soon.

RIP Velvet Thunder, this world took you from us, far sooner than we were ready. We are going to miss you Andre. <3
The image Melissa sent of the empty desk cuts deeper than any other image I've seen in a long time.
The post from Marc Evan Jacobs hit me in the gut.
As my lips purse, and my eyes blink eight times a second instead their usual twelve, I find myself reminded of the eulogy Holt himself gave. 

His life "was like an epic chess match. And it's hard to believe that... \[He'll\] never make another move."
That Melissa one was the one that got me. Before reading the others it was a sense of “it can’t be real, he’s not dead” and then bang he’s really gone. 

Has Andy made a tribute yet?
“If you’re taking the time to write a tribute, then who’s guarding Hades?” 

The empty desk is haunting. And crushing.
O Captain, My Captain. Got the tears rolling on that one.
They are all wonderful tributes. I love B99.  I toggle between B99 and Superstore as my comfort shows. 

Melissa’s post was beautiful, however, Marc’s really gutted me.   I loved the love of Raymond, Kevin, and of course, Cheddar.   

RIP Velvet Thunder.
Chelsea’s “I knew and hoped I’d see you again. Hate that I won’t” just breaks me
I love how Terry is still the one who gets to say "Nine Nine". Through the good times and the bad... Nine Nine!
It may be strange, but Dirk Blocker‘s comment resonates deeply with me.

Hitchcock as a character is this gross, stupid, lazy bum.
But that he then highlights Andre Braugher‘s intelligence as the first positive thing…I don’t know why, but it is such a nice gesture.

Joel McKinnonMiller‘s tribute is also just beautiful.
Jesus! Someone lock up the rest of the cast, somewhere safe, until next year! I don’t trust 2023 anymore after first Perry and now captain dad 😭😭😭
Why is an old leather chair posting a tribute story for my captain?
Our dads 😭😭
That picture that Joel McKinnon Miller uploaded is such a great photo! 

RIP Andre :(
[deleted]
I found this out before bed. And man that ruined the night for me. 

Made me sad… he’s the only tv dad I’ve ever admired and liked…  

Goddamn idk why this is hitting me so hard… 

Is it cuz I watch reruns of b99 all the time and holts presence is so calm and safe
Chelsea's comment about processing it for Gina is what broke me 💔
The empty desk cuts deep. R.I.P. Andre
The O captain my captain has me literally sobbing at my desk.
"Plaing his other half has been the highlight of my career " Madeleine Wunch for the win
Not seeing anything from Andy Samberg or Stephanie Beatrice yet makes things feel a lot more heavy for some reason. I know it's affecting them a lot.
I loved the backstory on Jeffs. I think thats how the cold open came: „His knees are in the breeze, hes in his undies.“ This is one of the scenes that will forever make me laugh and im so happy that it was Andrés idea.
Gone too soon. Brooklyn 99 is my comfort show, I have rewatched it countless times. And I loved loved loved Captain Holt and Andre’s incredible acting. Also saw him in house and he was soo good. My heart is sooo heavy.
I can't help but think of how differently I'll view the show now, as trivial as that sounds. But I needn't look any further than Dirk's tribute. I don't think I'll ever see Hitchcock the same. I'm very happy about this, even though he never bothered me before.

Edit: I'm happy to see a different side of Dirk, but It's definitely a silver lining. I'm heartbroken that Andre died, and it will forever make sad watching the show.
Somehow Melissa’s hurt the most and she didn’t even write anything 😭
I’ll be honest, Andre/Holt always reminded me of my dad. He kinda looked like him but more particularly because of his voice and laugh.

And now, 10 years after his passing, Andre died at the same age. It feels a little like a repeat.
[deleted]
Kevins post just made me tear up
Im not crying, im not crying.. 😭
It always felt like there was a chance they’d make a movie for this show on peacock.  I now sincerely hope they don’t and doubt they they will.  It would have to be about them losing Holt and though it would be an excellent tribute, the show ended happily, and it’s not B99 without Andre Braugher
chelsea's got to me "is it weird I’m also grieving for what captain holt meant to Gina?" its not weird :'(
This one is just a gut punch. I first came across him when he did Glory with Matthew Broderick, Denzel Washington and Morgan Freeman among others. For a little boy fascinated by the Civil War that movie blew my mind. I really was excited to see him get the role in Brooklyn 99 and he really just blew me away with his talent. This show was so damn effective at challenging negative stereotypes and ideas in subtle and intelligent ways and the legitimacy that he put into Captain Holt as a character was a central element in that happening. RIP Mr. Braugher.
I legit broke down after Marc posted that pic
I just introduced my fiance to the show, and he agreed one of the best actors on the show. We just finished yesterday, I was stuck thinking about the bit where Holt talks to Rosa. It feels so weird to have introduce my fiance to the show just for my favorite person from it to pass.
I was waiting for a "Holt is dead, bagel!" from kyra. I'm obviously joking and this is devastating. The line about Gina and Holt really got to me.
😭
I was holding myself until i saw melissa's post..
“O captain my captain “ I can’t. That’s just. My heart can’t take that! So sad to hear of this.
I noticed the cast and crew had tributes up pretty quickly after the news broke. I wonder if they'd gotten word that he wasn't doing well and were somewhat prepared :(

EDIT: Ah, looks like he actually passed the day before the news was made public. They probably found out soon after.
Damn so sad
Santiago and Kevin’s are just like 💔 😘🤌
The Kevin one made me tear up:(
God, losing him and Matthew Perry so soon is heartbreaking. Genuinely my two favourite characters in comedy
He was also a talented voice actor. He did one of my favorite portrayals of Darkseid and I never knew it until a recent rewatch. Gone way too soon.
Celebrity deaths don't usually hit me but this one may make me cry. I'm a closeted bi woman, and his performance at the end of Rosa's coming out episode nearly inspired me to come out, too. I didn't, but hearing those words were still so important to me. It's my favorite episode of the show because of that. My thoughts are with his loved ones.
The Melissa post is actually perfect for Rosa.
Oh damn. Can't believe this is how I found out we lost our Captain Dad. May he rest in peace. Truly an amazing actor.
I can’t take this. That empty desk picture had me burst out in tears.
I watched brooklyn 99 on its original run from beginning to end , the show aged with me , and i have to say Andre Braugher was such an important part of my development as a person! Thank you for everything you will be truly missed❤️❤️NINE-NINE!😢
It's weird to know that he's not here anymore. Andre and Cpt Holt has bring so much to B99 and to me as a person. Thank you so much for all you have done Andre, may you rest in peace.
Not the first person who’s been on TV that I’m a fan of who’s died, but fuck this sucks.
I can't believe it. Taken too soon
I tried my best not to cry at work today
The “Love Porkchop” hit me so fucking hard man
Genuinely cried several times today over this. It’s already been a hard time lately, and this show got me through some really really dark times. This wonderful man made me smile and laugh till tears filled my eyes, when all joy in life had seemingly been drowned by sorrow. He was a true gift, and will be missed terribly.
To Captain Raymond Holt, a father figure to all of us. We'll surely miss you, Ray-Ray. Nine-nine.
Now I don’t know if I can watch the show without feeling sad, he was the highlight with how he played the character, with a humorous dry delivery.
I’m not one to cry at celebrity deaths but this one got me man. Andre Braugher looks like my dad and his character on B99 was so much like my dad too, hard shell that sticks to principles but has a deep and soft core that loves hard. 

When my partner lost his dad it was around COVID time and lockdown rules were so strict so I wasn’t allowed to visit him which made it tough. I encouraged my partner to watch B99 to cheer him up and it was nice to hear my partner belly laugh and get his mind off things. He’d be the one to tell me when new episodes were out on Netflix! So I always hold B99 at a special place. I live in the UK but idk, I always I imagined I’d meet Andre one day. 

Captain holt was ALWAYS my favourite character on the show. From the Dentist v Doctor rant in ‘The Box’, to ‘This Bitch?!’ To ‘one of these pictures is a garbage dumpster in the Philippines and one is your locker…they’re BOTH your locker’ to the times he was very serious and showed moments of being proud of the rest of the team. Hearing how nice he seemed offset too makes it so painful as well.

RIP Andre Braugher ❤️🥀🕊️
.
It's the first time in my life I am SO terribly upset about the death of a celebrity/actor. There's something about Andre. I watched B99 so many times I lost count throughout my many years or illness. I am chronically ill & disabled, and am often too sick to do anything more than lay & watch TV, but his character of Capitain Holt literally made my days, filled my days with laughter, so much laughter and joy. I'd pause to laugh out loud, and restart scenes because he is SUCH a funny brilliant actor. I will miss him terribly. He is gone way too soon.
Stephanie Beatriz posted a clip of Holt saying his quote about the world being more interesting when people say who they are and hugs Rosa.  I had a feeling she would choose that memory.  she only wrote "Andre!" with a heart. I feel bad for her, as she recently posted something on IG earlier about how grief ebbs and flows (presumably referencing her father who passed) and now a month later, Andre also leaves. Tough times.
🙏👏❤️😩💔
Literally. Crying. On. The toilet.
Im not crying who is cutting onions
has Andy samberg said anything?
I’m suprised Andy Samberg hasn’t posted anything
Wait, he *died*???
Did I miss something?
Why hasn’t Andy Samberg said anything?
[deleted]
How did he die ? Very sad! Too soon!
Wunch had a real opportunity to have it both ways
Rip Andre. Absolute legend
O captain. My captain 🫡
Same. Robin Williams hit hard, but I don’t really remember crying the way I did today with Andre.
I felt this way about Matthew Perry and Andre too. Ughh life is so precious. Just makes me sad because both brought me so much laughter.
Same here, I was surprised at how differently it hit me when I heard this morning.   I really liked everything he did and loved his performances as Captain Holt, it could not have been played better than he did it.

His character is implemented in some of my account passwords.  A few day ago, I couldn't get into one of my accounts and asked for my password hint.  The hint was "Thick weighty breasts".  I lost it.  RIP sweet prince
I'm the same. I was just about to comment that no other celebrity death has affected me this much.
It’s an unrelated example but Kevin Conroy’s death last year hit me really hard. I looked up to him as Batman and he brought so much to the role, bringing a strong love and care for the character, showing him at his best and worst and overall making the character his own, and he was such a great guy to see at conventions and with his fellow crew members. He was such an inspiration and it is sad knowing he is no longer here. RIP.
right. melissas and marcs were so simple but god they were one of the most painful ones. joes was so beautifully written though🥹
Yeah I thought I was handling the news well until I saw that photo. At that moment, I was most assuredly not handling the news well.

Anyone able to provide a link to a high res photo of the desk? I'd like to print/frame it.
My immediate thought was „Dammit, Santiago. Right in the gut.“
Pictures really are worth a thousand words.
I saw everyone else's except Melissa's, until now. That one hurt.
That one got me!
For real... I was crying lightly before, but that one send me over the edge and I am bawling now
Right.. like what the hell Melissa 😭😭😭
Dammit, I was thinking the same exact thing.
I thought I had recovered after seeing Marc's last night, but that one broke me.  Such a simple, perfect tribute.
i dont know when she took the picture but its really profound in its new context. i think that was the one that stung the most.
I’m losing it right now. 😭
That one got me hard!!
I lost it at that image. Became a blubbering mess instantly.
That immediately brought the waterworks for me
I don't see it on her Instagram :'(
I started crying with that one. Am still crying. Kinda saw their characters as father figures and I'm so sad 😢
That one broke me
I was doing ok until I read this, and then I started sobbing.
I’m honestly impressed with how accurately he and Melissa conveyed so much emotion with so little. Hits harder than all the rest, and that poem is just perfect to honour Andre. He was a legend
[deleted]
He doesn’t have personal social media.
No he hasn't
We all know he's feeling it. He isn't obligated to publicly demonstrate it. And it must be weighing on him as well. I feel really bad and sad for Captain Dad's basically adopted son.
You made me smile through tears.
I’m not a person who cries easily and that line made me SOB. I had an uncle randomly die of a heart attack earlier this year and I felt like what Chelsea said so beautiful captured the grief of losing someone you love so unexpectedly. IMO, Captain Holt was one of the greatest tv characters in history and Andre was born to play him. Rest in power king.
That's the one that got me the most. I think a lot of these are beautifully written and do carry lovely sentiment, but Chelsea's was the one that could feel the most grief in. Grief isn't usually poetic and well written, it's raw and unedited. I've know that exact feeling in the line you quote. I hadn't seen my best friend for about 5 months before she died and I always had the feeling of "well I know I'll see you again" and realizing, after she died, that I had been wrong that whole time was really really hard to deal with in my grief.
Of all the cast, Dirk is the most different in real life from their character. He's apparently a lovely, normal guy; whilst the character he played is dumb, and crude, and utterly unaware.
This year took my dad, the fathers of two friends and now Captain Dad.  I am so done with this year.
My friend said if they take Bruce Willis we riot.
JFC I cackled reading this, thank you
I actually found out the news from /r/ShermanPosting talking about Andre as the actor who plays Thomas

And he nailed that role as well
Yes, this happened to me too. I had such a bad time trying to sleep and cried too. This is hitting hard, such a beautiful human being to have this impact is so many people.
Their characters had such a deep connection, I absolutely understand that not only she's mourning herself, but also for Gina.
And I hope they process in their own time and do what they feel like if and when they want to. Too many times people call celebs out in death like a social media post is mandatory.
Stephanie commented a single heart on the Brooklyn 99 account’s post for him
Neither of them have personal social medias.
As in his tribute or the news itself?
[removed]
Wuntch got the Netherworld. Holt has Heaven and the two shall not twine meet. I'm sure Kyra Sedgwick is in mourning like the rest of the cast and all us fans.
I'm.. fuck it this brings me to tears
Too sad to Write something
He's not particularly active on social media.
What do you think you missed? Even if you haven’t heard the news I think it’s pretty clear from this post that Andre has sadly passed away.
The easier, probably less painful answer to that is that he’s not very active on Instagram. Realistically, he’s grieving the loss of a close friend; he may not ever be willing to post about it.
oh my god y’all did this same shit with the friends cast spamming them to post about matthew perry’s death. they are mourning a loss of a friend.. they are not obligated to post anything. they probably need some time to process this
Let people grieve before expecting a tribute on social media
It hasn’t even been a day…?
Yep!!!!
Marc's made me tear up this morning.
Joe's wife Beth Dover had a beautiful tribute to him too. I think she's ion insta as official Beth dover
https://www.instagram.com/p/CP99DmEjoLt/?igshid=ZWI2YzEzYmMxYg==

I believe this to be the original, found on a writer's Instagram. I could be wrong though
Was the picture on her Instagram or Twitter?
😭😢 meee
Title of your sex tape
I missed the poem was it in a story? I would love to read it. I'm still reeling. This is easily the hardest celebrity artist/person/genius that has affected me. I hate that it took this, but I became a better person that morning I learned about Andre and hope I am still becoming a better person.
He uses The Lonely Island insta account to post, but still doesn’t post super often
I think Stephanie Beatriz is also a rather different, and not only the voice!  


But also I never thought Dirk in real-life would be a bad person or anything.
That’s just straight up horrible! I’m so sorry for your losses 🌹😢
2023 was the year of the fire for you cedarthea. 2024 will be the year that you grow. It gets better, I promise. Coming from someone who had a similar year in 2020. You are doing better than you are giving yourself credit for. Nine nine
I'm so sorry. I had a similar year back in 2016 and at a certain point it starts to feel like you're just perpetually waiting for another shoe to drop and it's so draining. I hope you get a break and have all the time and support you need to heal. Getting through each day is a step forwards.
I feel this but at the same time I hope he goes soon so he doesn’t have to battle dementia for years. It’s such a fucked up disease.
Sadly, Bruce doesn’t have long now. His dementia is advancing quickly.
Here's a sneak peek of /r/ShermanPosting using the [top posts](https://np.reddit.com/r/ShermanPosting/top/?sort=top&t=year) of the year!

\#1: [You had me at “frequently quotes the abolitionist John Brown”](https://i.redd.it/ekxiwf130ezb1.jpg) | [573 comments](https://np.reddit.com/r/ShermanPosting/comments/17rn0cb/you_had_me_at_frequently_quotes_the_abolitionist/)  
\#2: [Jason Aldean getting what he deserves](https://i.redd.it/6v2n2tbsy54c1.jpg) | [437 comments](https://np.reddit.com/r/ShermanPosting/comments/18a6h1a/jason_aldean_getting_what_he_deserves/)  
\#3: [Or we could just burn them down…](https://i.imgur.com/UkkOjgr.jpg) | [92 comments](https://np.reddit.com/r/ShermanPosting/comments/12pjfzg/or_we_could_just_burn_them_down/)

----
^^I'm ^^a ^^bot, ^^beep ^^boop ^^| ^^Downvote ^^to ^^remove ^^| ^^[Contact](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose/?to=sneakpeekbot) ^^| ^^[Info](https://np.reddit.com/r/sneakpeekbot/) ^^| ^^[Opt-out](https://np.reddit.com/r/sneakpeekbot/comments/o8wk1r/blacklist_ix/) ^^| ^^[GitHub](https://github.com/ghnr/sneakpeekbot)
I found out in the morning and got too caught up being sad to make coffee before work

And then there was a line at the bank
Exactly, and if we don't hear anything from them, that's fine too.
The amount of harassment the Friends cast had on their instagrams after Matthew Perry died was ridiculous, like let people grieve.
The tribute video from the official B99 YouTube features some excellent scenes of Braugher with Beatriz and Andy. It struck me just how many highly emotional/connective scenes Hold and Diaz actually had together.
Steph's IG handle is @stephaniebeatriz . Posted yesterday about a new series she's providing voice work for, but nothing about Andre as of yet.
Stephanie does, I follow her Instagram.
Actually Andy Samberg has an Insta, but he only made one post in 2015 and hasn’t posted since then.
I'm happy to see a different side of Dirk, not about the news itself. That was devastating. 

Sorry, I just reread what I wrote and I see it.
She did actually write quite a heartfelt post on her instagram. This table pic in her story is from an old post from 2021. This old pic and the lastest post are both heart-shattering.
You should realize that's way out of this person's league to deduce that
Damn
Marc’s post was the first thing I saw before hearing the news, left me devastated
Marc’s has me tearing up 💔
It’s really beautiful and Devestating. He will be missed
It was an instagram post from a long time ago that she reposted to her story.
Thank you for that much needed chuckle!!
It’s Marc’s tweet. It’s the name of a famous poem https://www.poetryfoundation.org/poems/45474/o-captain-my-captain
Thanks, it’s been two very long years but each day I’m finding my footing a little bit better.
>at a certain point it starts to feel like you're just perpetually waiting for another shoe to drop and it's so draining

This is me too, it's been a hell of a few years.  That sense of perpetual vigilance is one of the symptoms of PTSD, as it happens. (Sometimes it helps to know that--the trauma association, that it can be treated, and also how common it is as an experience/response.)
They had the best scene in the show. Their hug meant so much. I'd say we can only aspire to have a moment in our lives when we can smooth out a hardship in another.
Ok thank you. Looks like I missed that from her story. There are new tributes now.
Yes, of course. I know the poem and perfectly fitting. I know they’ll never be anymore episodes ever but in my head I’m seeing the entire squad on top of their desks saying Nine Nine! 😢😭
Wait, Wuntch was MARRIED?!
But who could possibly want to marry a gnawing she-wolverine with 10 rows of teeth?
So her husband was the one GUARDING HADES when she was at the 99 precinct.
Probably to Satan himself who welcomed her home with open arms - Most likely Capt. Holt
Sounds like a great way to get Kevin Bacon into a spinoff series
He visits the grave every week to put up a new balloon arch♥️
Frankenstein
I will always miss this man.
Wunchtime is OVER.
I find it comforting that Holt regularly puts a balloon arch on Wuntch's grave. He says he's happy she's dead, but on some level we know he really misses her.
Yes she was...to the Devil
That balloon arch is magnificent
We need a movie where her daughter taunts the precinct by becoming the mayor
Where is this pic/scene from
I like to imagine her husband worked at the same college at Kevin and was his arch nemesis.
I did not know it was legal to marry animals in New York... 

Apparently someone married an old goat
She's married to Kevin Bacon irl
All witches are married to Satan they say
Probably Lucifer
Interesting. I wasn't aware that cockroaches were legally allowed to marry
Married fine… But why does it say Beloved??? Do people lie on tombstones 🪦?
A [teratoma](https://my.clevelandclinic.org/health/diseases/22074-teratoma), obviously.
Obviously to Satan himself
Shes married to the devil, shes a goat remember?
Man, hard to believe he’s dead.
Unrelated but it's kinda cool how we saw discrimination against a female commissioner in the show, and then Wuntch overcame that (with some help from the squad).
She’s married to Satan in an abusive relationship. I feel bad for the poor guy
No no, wuntch was served
“ beloved”
Ding dong the wuntch is dead
Probably married Satan
Captain Holt definitely looks like he brought a ton of bagels to the service…
I think the marriage started off nicely but over time they grew tired of each other but neither gave enough of a crap to actually file for divorce. They clearly didn't have any kids since the word "Mother" is absent.
I miss holt everyday
She meet her husband during her annual trip to Mexico. They both enjoy drinking blood from goats, for kicks.
Have you never played seven degrees of Wuntch?
So why DID Wuntch keep fucking with Holt? And why would he ever forgive the truly horrific things she kept doing to him?
You are burying the lede… that balloon arch is MAJESTIC
To Beelzebub
I'm sure she and Frankenstein's monster had a fulfilling marriage
Someone had to hold the leash when she goes for walks.
No doubt to Dracula himself 
To SATAN

...is what Holy would probably say 💔
Don’t you know she was married to Satan?
To saitan
Kevin Bacon.
It’s weird that they have a headstone for an old leather chair.
I think it’s illegal to marry an old leather chair
Ding Dong Bagel
Wait, she was a DAUGHTER?!
Married to the leather leg rest.
I feel so bad for Lucifer, having to be married to her.
Bagels for everyone 
BAGELS....🍩
BAGELS....🍩
BAGLES....🍩
damn that poor man i hope he knew she loved a gay man
The Vulture.
But we know it wasn’t Derek Jeter
You dare compare that Gorgon to Persephone?
Judging by the fire in the background, it may be a livestream
Totally read that in his voice, you absolutely nailed it.
The wunch meat - was bacon!!!
That explains why he has so many goats on his farm - his wife is one herself !
That’s what I was hoping!
i only just realized last week!!!!!! from one of his tiktoks!!!!!! that she is THE Kyra Sedgwick!!!!!!

i never knew what she looked like and didn't bother to look it up, tho i did loooove her as Wunch
Top-3 lines of the show for me. Every time I even just think about it, I lose it lol


And he drops it so casually, he and they move along so quickly too...absolutely glorious.
VINDICATION!!
I remember crying from laughter the first time I heard this one
You must mean Frankenstein's monster
Where's it's [horse?](https://youtu.be/d24Av7D0v1g?si=_YEk9BWopYtOc1mw)
Me too. I don't usually get emotional over actors/famous people dying, but I felt despondent and so empty when I learned of his passing.
Got to say that B99 is one of my favorite shows and I keep rewatching it yearly. It actually hurt learning of his passing as — much like Jake — saw him as a father figure. The writing of this show and Andre's incredible acting were an unforgettable force. I just reached the final episode for the 5th time and I am choosing to skip it...
Ah! Had it both ways! No regrets
We need a bot that says Holt's roasts to Wuntch whenever someone mentions her name
No regrets!
BAGEL
Of course. He misses being able to talk shite about her to her face.
What season and episode did they mention?
She is magnificent 😭
Doesn't seem like she had any children. Makes sense, a goat can't mate with humans.
Season 8 episode 9 - The Last Day Part 1  .  It's a behind the scene picture from one of the stops on the scavenger hunt.
Kevin Kozner and Kevin Bacon, lol
And they’re such a cute couple
I feel bad for the guy
They clearly mispelled beloathed.
Beloved by who? Her flying monkey minions?
Huh. I wonder when he finally had enough of her and filed for divorce.
No, she IS Frankenstein's monster.
Maybe Dracula killed her. Probably couldn't stand how much of a bloodsucking vampire she was.
Well I assume even Satan had spawn.
For all we know, he could have been gay too
She embarrassed HERSELF in front of Derek Jeter.
Good one rosa
I just watched that episode last night.  🤣
This summer... *pan zoom to Madeline*

The only Wunch meat *random shot of a fish*

Is bacon! *Kevin bacon slips and falls on the fish*
this could mean so many things
She's a GREAT actress.
All of my rewatches are just to get more Holt.
i absolutely LOL'ed at that line, it was absolutely brilliant
BONE!
No, because she WAS Frankenstein's monster.
Intelligence is knowing the monster wasn’t called Frankenstein.

Wisdom is knowing Frankenstein *was* the monster.
HES DEAD? FACK ME.
I second this.
YEEEEEESSSSSSSS!
YEEEEEESSSSSSSS!
**VIN-DI-CA-TION!!!!**
Says mother on her grave
When she got too horrible for him
Really solid work, all day.
First role I saw her in was Secondhand Lions! She was SO good I thought she was an ah in real life lol. Absolutely love her. And that movie!
Ah, touché.
So that explains why people follow her with torches and pitchforks.
Good one.
Genius is knowing Wuntch is the monster
Frankenstein was my gcse text this yr. I said smn along the lines of that in my conclusion in the final sentence
Oh shit. I like this.
Unfortunately, yes.

He died of heart failure this last December.
I third this 
No, it says "wife, daughter, and police commissioner", and her next of kin was her nephew.
She kills every role she's in. Underrated.
Well I pronounce it as touchy!
Piggstein, you’re a genius.
Sure you did.
I cry now.
I didn't know that. He was really great.
Lol I'm projecting apparently. Well let's have a storyline where she got a hold of böyle juice
She could have frozen eggs somewhere.
SO TRUE!!!! Petition to give Kyra Sedgwick more roles and more credit!!!!!
Yes ! She’s perfect in The Closer
I heard this one as Jake imitating Holt telling him that hahahaha
A Genius/Amazing Detective/Human
Ahem, Boyle oil
Nobody calls it that except a Boyle....wait a minute
You caught me, I’m outta here, love you
I love you too Boyle
this episode
is in my opinion BY FAR the best. i feel like because of his unserious personality sometimes we as an audience forget how great of a detective jake actually is. this episode makes sure we remember what makes him holts best detective. 
"🥛apprently that's a trigger for me"
"...TALKING REALLY LOUD, then talking really soft. Looking into their eyes, then looking away..........


...........leaning."
Sterling K. Brown deserved his Emmy for this episode
The weapon's already in the patient's mouth 
SONNNNN!
He got lucky
“There’s gotta be some way to break him!”

“Wait, I just thought of something

Two, three, four! 🎸🎶🎶AHHHHHH! AGHHHHHHHHHHHHH!🎶🎸

Yeah i really gotta stop trying that, it never works”
and that’s 3 oh damns. oh damn!
AND NOBODY EVEN CARES ABOUT ETYMOLOGY
Did this episode get submitted for any awards? It’s a fantastic blend of the comedy and great police work in a tv show.
A PHD IS THE VERY DEFINITION OF A DOCTOR!!!
I'm about to monolog... son!
Kevin.
Sterling K Brown and Andre Braugher have impeccable acting skills on this episode!
I love Sterling k brown with all my heart and when i watched this episode for the first time and he came on the screen, i literally screamed.
its worth noting that Homicide is now on peacock and you can see the episode that this was an homage to as well.
Oh I was massively crushing on Sterling K Brown and the way it ends was super hilarious! God I love this show
Honestly most of the episode is slightly stressful to watch because of how they just continually fail (sometimes in rather embarrassing ways) but oh man the payoff is WORTH IT every time
Robert “Rob” Henry Tupper
He's almost always universally a good detective. He just happens to be unserious while detecting. 

This ep is fantastic thou.
This (The Box) IS my favorite episode, it’s also the only one I know the name of the episode. Except “Casecation” but that’s only cause people bag on it so much (and I think Julia Sweeney nailed it, still not the best episode but not the worst). Hmmmm now I’m thinking about what I WOULD consider the worst.
Seriously it's one of the greatest acted episodes in the series. All the way around its legit just amazing. It's all dialog between 2 or 3 people in like 3 or 4 low background scenes. Sterling k brown was amazing. And the relationship between Jake and holt just got that much deeper.
As a dentist that understands dentistry, it hurt my soul that it didn't make any sense.  Still funny though.
I absolutely love this episode. This and “the room” are my favorite (If that’s the right name idk)
Honestly the best episode and made me realize there's more to Brooklyn 99 than the silly goofy comedy episodes. This was probably the most serious and intense episode focused on a small space and on limited characters. Beautifully written and amazingly performed by the three actors ❤️
I met him in my small town and told him this was his best work. He smiled at me but I couldn’t tell if he was happy or mad, proving he’s a great actor.
Wonder if he tried playing the guitar and screaming
Fantastic episode - totally agree that’s it’s fucking awesome to see that moment where the jokester main character gets serious in a way we’ve never seen and goes into a gear we’ve never seen before. If anyone is a fan of the comedy detective show Psych, this episode reminded me a lot of when Shawn Spencer takes on Mr. Yang - you see the character truly serious for the first time against the most disturbing character of the series and it’s fun
The best episode with a guest star ever
THE BEST ONE EVER
My favorite episode! One of the best!!!
Oh damn!
Its a great episode but also quite intense such that I don't think I've ever re-watched it.
This episode is it 🐐
Oh damn, oh damn.... OH DAMNNNN!
Best bottle episode in TV history. Prove me wrong. 
Such a great episode!
??? Seriously? Jake always solves cases, figures things out , heroic, crafty...he's the best cop on the show consistently 
can someone explain to me what happens in this episode?
One of my favorite episodes
While this episode is one of my favorites, if not my absolute favorite, its hard to justify calling it the best of the series, simply because it’s a bottle episode, and so much of the cast isn’t involved. The writing and the acting are perfect. But it’s missing a lot of what makes the nine-nine wonderful.
This episode is the equal and opposite reaction to the classic Only Fools and Horses episode 'May The Force Be With You'.
fr its so good it could be its own short movie
Hands down my favourite!!
Loved this episode. It was brilliant.
Banger of an episode
I love this episode because of the chair scene tbh
My favorite episode of the whole series.
Not only didn't we break him, but now I have to go to the dentist
Tens across the board, no splash
Best episode
Best episode
Son!
Oh damn!
I couldn’t agree more!
2 3 4 AAAAAAHHHHHHH
Best episode by far, OH DAMN
Oh damn 
OH Damn 
OH DAMN
My favourite episode.
Best
Don’t like this Ep. Stirling tried to be Leo!
I know we live in a world where ANYTHING can mean ANYTHING! AND NOBODY EVEN CARES ABOUT ETYMOLO-
“That was amazing”
Hear, hear
He’s a scene stealer that never chews the scenery.
Dude is phenomenal as these types of characters, I've found. Gordon in Supernatural was also a cocky bad guy vampire hunter, and I just got to the part in Boston Legal where he plays a death row convict. So good.
He didn’t win an Emmy, he was only nominated for one.
TIL he got an Emmy for this. Right on.
Son.
Uh, he won an Emmy for this? I don't think he deserved it. I think he was the best player killer/criminal on the show, but he deserves an Emmy more for that......I wouldn't even be able to guess the genre... Show "This Is Us". Saw a few episodes. Absolutely not my thing. But SKB was the best actor on the show by far.
Oh damn
It wasn't luck... Son.
The implication that he has done this makes it even funnier
What’s even funnier is it’s Kid Cudi he’s playing the guitar to. And ironic enough, Cudi’s acoustic album kind of sounds similar lol. No hate to Cudi, I love him.
That scene is hilarious 🤣 I haven't watched B99 in two years but I still remember that scene clearly 😆😂
oh damn!
☕   
"Perhaps that's a trigger for me..."
Sterling k brown won Emmy for best guest spot or something right? Prob the best ep of the series imo
Maybe let’s refocus
It was funny how the captain had to spell out his name to Kevin on the phone regarding whose name the tickets for the opera were on.
Yeah that’s not weird at all.
Oh I didn't know it was a specific episode, just homicide in general. Which episode? 

 I remember "the box" scenes in homicide were critically acclaimed and considered some of the best acting on TV. Famous actors would have cameos to flex their acting, and Andre was particularly known for his skills in these scenes. This episode was such an amazing call back to those scenes and it was great to see Andre back in the box.
Saw this yesterday and got super excited. Been waiting a long time for someone to stream the greatest cop show ever
Now I know what I'm doing for the next two weeks. Thank you!
Surely it's "The Good Ones" (season 8 episode 1) for worst episode. 

I appreciate they could hardly avoid the topic of police brutality at the time, but it was heavy-handed, and some characters changed too much in between seasons which was a bit jarring for the viewer. I'll be fair to the writers as I recall they had to rewrite a few episodes to address the issue, so it really was an unenviable task.
As a former dental assistant, same.
This is “the Box”
Can you hit us with which episode of Psych this is? I couldn’t get into the series but would like to check this episode out anyways
Oh damn
Oh wow, it's not just me! I've rewatched the whole show probably 40 times but can't watch this one. It's too full on and Sterling makes my skin crawl.
Nobody will take that bet.
Jake and Holt try to get Philip Davidson, a dentist who murdered someone, to confess. They have to get him to confess in 12 hours or else he’ll go free because the District Attorney believes his alibi (which has no evidence to support it). They try different strategies to get him to confess, it’s one of my favorite episodes
That scene is just golden for me, B99 and Andre Braugher will be missed 🥲
I can hear this as I read 🤣
i saw this post where someone posted balloons on the stairway and asked if holt would approve of the balloon arch and someone commented this and i laughed so hard at this exact comment of yours, maybe you saw the post too or it was even you that commented. anyways, just wanted to share this nice comment.
This really bothered me. Holt was wrong about the etymology of doctor, it's just a widespread myth! He would NEVER have made such a blunder!
Isn't here,here?
He was dope in that OJ miniseries, too. He played Christopher Darden.
Well he deserved to win, his performance was amazing
He didn’t, sadly.
He didn't, I just thought he did.
Oh damn
Yes it was; you got lucky at EVERY TURN!!!
OH DAMN!
He has done it! Season 1 episode 7!
Oh… Damn!
He was nominated
Holt: There's another person I want to hear sing.

Jake: *gasp* OH DAAA-

Holt: *some dialogue abt cancelling reservations idk*

Jake: *realises* oh daaaa-

Holt: It's H-O-L-
My favourite from the whole series, Holt telling Kevin the tickets are in his name and then spelling it, particularly because it’s in the background and not the focus of the scene
I read that in Rosa's voice
Three men and adena, Andre is the character conducting the 12 hour interrogation about a missing girl IIRC
Like everything good from the 90s, they don't have rights to all the music so it's missing something :(
It’s definitely going to be one they force fed us a moral to the story. Might be MooMoo I always hated that one, but Desmond Harrington (aka Quinn on Dexter) is in it and he’s awesome so it has SOME love from me. IDK it’s TBD I guess.
Yeah I know that, but the other one is the crime scene, I just forgot the name 😭
It's the last episode of season 3.
Oh damn!
I saw that too! Weirdly wholesome moment.
Do you mean a kerfuffle?
No, that's grammatically incorrect.
I agree completely.
TIL he didn’t get an Emmy for this. Bummer.
Oh daaaaaaymn
Oh damn
Oh daaamn!
Is it the one bugs bunny sings?
You got it!
Oh I just saw that episode, it's in the first season and was almost entirely filmed in the box. Very good episode though hard to watch.
Oh yeah that one, with all the Rosa hairdos
And that is 3 oh damns! Oh Damn!
No, I mean a blunder. I know we live in a world where anything can mean anything and nobody even CARES ABOUT ETYMOL-
And that is three oh damns, ohhh damn
OH DAMN!
And that's 3 oh damns. Oh damn!
............yes
Was it a maple?
Yessss
🥛
And that is three Oh Damns!
Yes
OH DAMN ☝️!
I’d like to thank Jack Danger for teaching me this very fun fact 
(It’s pronounced Donger. Jackie Donger.) 
It should be Dongest.

Nobody is more dong than that guy
“It’s pronounced Donger”
There was this New York based company back in the 90’s, the name eludes me, they decided that instead of the USPS they’d use a private carrier. The postal service found out about this and raided their headquarters, not only that they also fined the company.
Our motto is
We guard what you lick.
I love how they were portrayed in the show, but the real USPIS is far more terrifying. They take a scorched-earth policy with most of their investigations in a way that even other Federal agencies avoid (except the IRS).

They be scary irl.
Al-qchiada
a thing that always bothered me about that episode is that the uspis is one of the most effective american law enforcement agencies, statistically donger probably had a better record than the all of the 99 combined
Are you Danger? Agent Jack Danger?
Hallmark has a TV/movie series called Signed, Sealed, Delivered about postal agents who run the 'dead letter' department and investigate damaged letters that the addresses are illegible on and it's pretty cute. Ridiculous, but cute
I’m a mailman. This is all true. Postal Inspectors do NOT fuck around
That’s why they call it going postal.
Andy was in 99?!
That prick irritated me. Ed helms is funny af though.
Ain’t no song called fuck the mailman
Never forget, USPIS [arrested](https://www.vox.com/policy-and-politics/2020/8/20/21377305/postal-service-steve-bannon-arrest) Steve Bannon.
He actually goes by Jackie.
Jackie Danger*
donger*
 Jackie donger*
That’s why the phrase going postal is most associated with bringing joy into peoples lives.
If you think Jack Danger is proud of USPIS, you should meet Edie (Laura Benanti) on The Detour!
Ok….have we found an exception? Should we assume ACAB doesn’t apply to Postal Inspectors?
It’s from the Dutch word meaning prudence in financial matters.
His friends call him "Jacky Donger"
".... of course it is."
Except in dutch it isn’t donger.

I get they wanted to make him lame even tho jake thought he has a cool name. But they messed up
Equifax? [found this story on google from 1993 that matches up with what you described except it says instead of a raid they did an inspection and then issued the fine and it was Atlanta not NYC.](https://www.deseret.com/1993/12/14/19081713/postal-service-fines-company-30-000-for-using-private-carrier/)

That actually is interesting though I never knew that businesses weren’t allowed to send certain types of mail private
“what?, thats even worse!”
One thing I do know is that you don’t wanna do crimes through the mail
I got audited and they found me money and the agent gave me candy.
Yea, it does always feel weird when the show makes fun of other agencies/ departments when the show is about the nypd. Same thing with fire-fighters.
I saw my dad watching that before haha. He has a soft spot for cheesy feel good stuff!
It was so funny when Jake started to say why they really call it that and he’s just like I KNOW WHY THEY CALL IT THAT
Yep season 2 episode 8. He’s a detective with the USPIS and he works with Jake and Rosa to catch a dealer of that drug “gigglepig” that Rosa led a task force for.
He does very well at playing a highly educated yet somehow dumb character who is simultaneously uptight and a goofball. Stu from the hangover, Andy from the office, and jack danger on B99 were all very similar in their personalities lol.
Egg helms
That’s why he was perfect in this role. The usps is awful, and needs to be privatized, like they’ve been trying to do for 40 years.
I’ll make a song called fuck Louis dejoy right now
I would put that on a resume
My stepfather is a retired postal inspector, so I can tell you that yes, it absolutely does.
Nietes >: (
The United States postal service is a business owned and operated by the United States government, I’m playing off bad memory here, but I think they’re the only ones legally allowed to transfer mail, no other courier service is allowed to deliver mail other than the usps. Equifax used a private courier, they got raided (or inspected, I’m going off a TheFatElectrician video here), and that’s the story of why I’m both scared of and respect the hell out of the USPS.
Funny that the company mentioned to be in breach has the word 'fax' in its name ;)
I like to headcanon it the same way I do all the flashbacks: everything is primarily from Jake Peralta's point of view, or at least one of the 99 squad, so there might be a bit of "unreliable narrator" effect going on that makes them look so good and most others a bunch of losers.
That's so funny. I only know about it cuz it's one of my Dad's favorites 😁
Stu from hangover was goat in the ed helms cinematic universe.
They also legally own your mailbox. You need to file a request to move it and no one else can put anything in them. Also a surprising number of people mail live animals
Might have to look into that. Those are the type of obscure rabbit holes I love going down
Guess it’s a dad thing haha
He had ~~semen~~ a demon inside him
I did political canvassing for a while as a side gig, and they were *very* clear on us never touching anyone's mailbox because it was a felony to do so. Kinda wild that most people don't know that, though.
The show lost SO MUCH 
While they started to push the character to outlandish extremes, the show lost A LOT when they lost Gina. My heart wasn’t in it nearly as much afterwards. 
Oh a positive post about Gina?

*sips tea* This will be fun ☕
She’s a great character but I felt like they got so lazy with her writing after she came back from maternity leave but ofc it’s only my opinion but I love her sm before s5!
She's the human form of the 💯 emoji.
Chelsea looks great here!!
Aside from her character (which I loved, especially the Coral Palms arc and when she was back in night school), I got so much fashion inspiration from Chelsea Peretti. I want to own every single thing Gina wears.
Personally, I flip flop on Gina a lot. 

She has her moments, but overall is grating with some of the more extremes she said/did. 

I think she works best with Jake and Amy, and of course Holt, but everyone else she's kinda just the heel.
She was easily the worst person in the show. Not worst character. Just worst overall human.

Constantly sexually harassing Terry. 

Made them drink cement. 

Self-centered to an evil degree. 

Couldn't roller skate for shit. 

I loved to hate Gina the same way I loved to hate Peggy Hill. Her terribleness was the point.
Until i finished the show and stared to interact with fandom i had no idea anyone could hate her, shes my top 3 character after Boyle and Rosa, i was really bummed out after she was gone.
Jesus Christ. It's a gag character in a comedy. It's crazy how serious people discuss these things
I didn't particularly like her since she was always mean to Amy for no reason and she always got the last laugh on the other characters without being humbled but I did like the dynamic she brought since she was the only main cast who wasn't a cop. I also really liked her loyalty to Holt and I loved seeing them together since their personalities are polar opposites but she always respected him.
Chelsea is a great actress, and she played the role perfectly. That being said, I was so happy when she was gone. 

You do you though, not gonna get mad that you like a character I don't. All the stuff she did wasn't nearly as bad as Amy listening in on Jake's therapy sessions. I refuse to believe the Halloween episodes are real, and I hate them.

I will die on this hill.
I was ok when she left.
She became worse and worse per season and even worse in the finale
I’m tired of Gina hate so this is a nice break. Love her character
Her Floorgasm dance routine was my favourite.

That and getting Holt addicted to Kwayzy Cupcakes and getting him to say it
Is Gina really that controversial?

Once she left for the first time, she sucked. They didn't know what to do with her the few times they brought her back, but wasn't she a pretty solid character before then?
I was so happy to see her go. Gina never hit me the right way, never liked her or found her funny. It was fine when she only occasionally appeared, like in the final couple(?) seasons, but for the majority of the show I found her insufferable.

Opinions will of course differ.
Meh 

I wouldn't be anywhere around a real life version of her
Finally. Someone with big enough balls to speak the truth. 
Gina was one of the funniest characters on the show. She rounded out the cast perfectly. I honestly got a little bored when she left.
I was so happy when she left, I liked the show even more without her
they could never make me hate you gina
Amy! VOLUUUUMUH
They tanked her character before she left, but she was one of the best and most unhinged characters of the show.
Pre-influencer/social media Gina was my favvvv. She lost me at the cement then everything after.
Same. She was one of my faves. It felt like a disservice to the show & the atmosphere totally changed when she left. I was quite saddened by it. 🥲
There is a reason most hate her. She became worse and worse after like season 2-3. They should’ve put Pimento permanently on the show after she left, thats the only thing the show lost tbh. She just became what many do nowadays on TikTok.
it’s because drama is what we crave. even if we hate it we actually love it. so yall liars saying you don’t like gina can go be bland and miserable somewhere else!
don't browse this sub much, people don't like Gina because she's mean or a bad person?

y'all would fucking hate It's Always Sunny in Philadelphia... that's every single character in the show
She’s the best. I love how confidently unhinged she was from the start 😂
Not really
FFS can we just get on with banning Gina-centric posts or at least limit them to a single day of the week?  Literally every other post is about how people love hey or how they hate her.  It’s so fucking exhausting
She was alright.
another reason not to finish this show
Started watching this show and everyone seems to be trying so hard to play their characters and it comes off as not funny, Gina is the only one who seems to come of as natural and her line deliveries are actually hilarious.
[Sparkle Surprise ](https://getyarn.io/yarn-clip/faf2a0e1-c604-4a22-a5f5-9314dd656d5d#JzFDxn-S.copy)
[Sparkle Surprise ](https://getyarn.io/yarn-clip/faf2a0e1-c604-4a22-a5f5-9314dd656d5d#JzFDxn-S.copy)
I think the mid seasons were the best (for obvious reasons). The characters had had enough time to grow and develop out of poor character writing but not too much time to be over the top extremes. Boyle is a perfect exemple of this. His bullying of Terry in the late seasons is almost as annoying as his obsession with Rosa in the earlier ones.
The Paris of people
Ok but aside from all this.. her outfits were always so fun and I wanted to own like half her wardrobe
I just don’t understand where she’s coming from as a character %1000 of the time. All the other characters follow some sort morale compass to their decisions but she doesn’t and some times I think a simple “hi “ would’ve been just fine from her. Seems like the writers wrote her into a weird spot
You mean the show got better when she left?
When the show first started I did not the character much, but now that I'm on season seven of my first watch I do miss her.
I disagree.  Personally I found show lost nothing when she left.  Not that at times she wasn't funny or contributed to plot.


But going back i only remember her relationship with Boyle.  It was well done, hilarious and very memorable. Definitely to me one of the strongest sub-plots of whole show.  And had super sweet moment when she admitted she doesn't regret it.


Anything else.  Is a blur.  Didn't think she added anything else to the show.  Either jokes or drama or plot movement.  Meh.
I agree, they let the character slip and the actress did as well. She definitely deserved better. I will always wonder why the writers more or less abandoned her
she was “The paris of people”
Totally agree.

I feel like the show was OKAY without Gina - it wasn’t like when Steve Carell left The Office, or when Nina Dobrev left the Vampire Diaries. Those shows really dropped off because they were losing their main character. But after Chelsea Peretti left B99, every couple of episodes, I would think to myself “Oh man, Gina’s not here anymore. Man, I really miss Gina.”
I fucking love Gina. Period.
Anything Chelsea Peretti does is usually hilarious. Gina was an absolute awful person but was one of the best characters on the show.
Gina is 90% of the show. My rewatches always have great ambitions to go past her departure but... they never seem to make it.
One of the funniest on the show. Her complete confidence in herself is a constant source of comedy gold.
Every episode after she left was better for her absence
LET THERE BE GINA!
She was needed to bring the others back down a peg or two when needed.
I didn't like her much, but she left an odd hole in the show and the other characters suffered for it.
GINA KNOWS BEST.
“But she was bad evil person! Everyone in fictional show must be good angel person for me to enjoy it!!!1!”
Honestly her character seemed so out of place the whole series….
The worst part of the show for me by far. The later seasons definitely lost quality after the studio switch, but its decline wasn’t cause of losing Gina, she was trash.
Hot take: I think Chelsea’s acting was heavy handed and over the top. She added a lot to certain scenes for sure but I didn’t really miss her when she left. And I also thought the Gina focused episodes were some of the worst. 


Best character on the show is captain Raymond holt.
I was so happy to see her go. Gina never hit me the right way, never liked her or found her funny. It was fine when she only occasionally appeared, like in the final couple(?) seasons, but for the majority of the show I found her insufferable.

Opinions will of course differ.
Bro I’m gunna spite rewatch the show just to show Gina some love. She’s hands down the funniest character
Eh I'm on season 3 and I am kind of done with Gina. Just not enjoying the joke of her character.
I was kinda meh, I liked her but sometimes it got ridiculous and kinda annoying to deal with
The comedy of the character didn't click with me. Was happy to see her gone
Absolute trash of human being.
Started cool

Ended up arrogant beyond belief.

I call it the reverse Phoebe
I didn’t realize Gina got any hate until now
I hated her because of her annoying voice, and in general she did not make me laugh at all.
She was so annoying.
She’s literally the only reason I watch the show
I absolutely hated her character AND Charles

They give u second hand cringe just watching them
Honestly the relationships between the inner circle seemed to be much better once she left. I was happy when she was absent due to bus hitting her and when she left for good I was elated
She was a little too much for me most of the times
I feel like the show gained when she left.
To me she’s a perfect example of a joke character who was supposed to be funny and ended up just being genuinely annoying whenever she was on screen
I just hate how she can do no wrong especially when she's very obviously sexually harassing terry and no one bats an eye
No
No, no it did not.
Lost so much... But gained soooooo much more.
The show lost Gina before she left it, so it was pretty easy to handle. 

Her character stopped making sense when they softened her up.
Did she leave?
Michael schur loves the “edgy weird person that is annoying but deep down, everyone around her knows she has a good heart and ensures it” like Gina is just the social media version of April, both very annoying people to me
Honestly, I’d probably be friends with her the way Jake is. Like yes she is a lot, but I think she would also be super fun to know. Being on the outside, literally, she definitely is a bit annoying (and sometimes it was just too much) but I think she really added something to the show. My favourite characters are definitely Holt, Kevin, and Amy but a show that was only them wouldn’t be all that great. I still love Jake even though he is very much unlike me
I kinda liked her until they kept bringing her back and back, it felt annoying
Anyone else see this and worried she had died as well
Something I realised recently is in most office job shows and the best characters are the secretary e.g. Brooklyn 99 is Gina and In suits is Donna and some people loved Gretchen to
I hated it when the show did shit attempts to hide her real pregnancy
Yep.  But she just seemed so tired and low energy after the baby.  Which I totally get.
Smash
Sarah Jay???
FARLEY!!!!!!!!
Why did she leave the show?
Who?
Gina was kind of like the Dean in community for me
I always thought she wasn't that great though I did miss her, howeverrrrrrrr the episode where they bring her back completely killed her character
Jordan Peele likes her.
I actually think season 7 is one of my favorites and that’s because Gina was mostly not in it.

Couldn’t stand her. All her jokes were “look at me! I’m annoying and awful!”
She is one my girlfriend's favorite character and I can't stand her.
I like her in the early seasons. But over time, she just annoyed me. Any scenes with her I usually skip over. Everyone else in the show has reasons to like them and relate to them in some way. Except her.
i was happy when gina was written out because she was always my least favourite but yeah i agree they ruined her character towards the end of her time on the show
I can agree that them flanderizing her made her MUCH more hated than she would have been.
Agreed, she’s SUCH AN ENTERTAINING CHARACTER
Chelsea is the greatest on Kroll Show
Stumbled into this sub about one of my favourite comfort shows of the past decade and did not expect to find this level of Gina discourse. 

Gina is a sociopath, it's what makes her character funny. The cement thing would obviously never happen in real life, but I find it ridiculously funny to this day. Also, this is set in a fictional Police Precinct that has time to put together heists annually for funsies. There are many things episode to episode that wouldn't be happening in real life. 

Does the writing for her get weird later in the show when she's living in a different social strata from her friends and being a generally shitty person? Yes. Though I felt the writers were using the character as an allegory for some of the media personalities of the time/things that were wrong with social media etc. 

All in all, Gina as a character has never stopped me wanting to revisit the show.
Not really. She was fine in the first few seasons, but got increasingly annoying after Florida. I was glad she left. It seemed like the writers had nothing for her.
After peacock took over the show was trashed
I really never liked her character it was just to much no matter what crazy stuff happened on the show she always had to be more crazy or on top of the crazy and it really to much for me.
I fucking love Gina, she's such a bitch, but it balances Rosa's colder personality, and it's amazing
I have a love hate with Gina. She utters some of the stupidest shit with utter confidence. On the other hand, she's drop golden lines. Chelsea Peretti is awesome
Totally agree!! Gina was my favorite and the show lost some umph!!
Nah, the show was much better without Gina.
No, they didn’t. I thought the show got much better after Gina left. I’ll concede that she had her moments, but for the most part she had a nasty streak.
Lost so much what? So many sexual harrassment scenes with terry?
Did Gina make this post?
I think the show was better without her (besides the last season) pretty much her entire character was just what annoying thing can we have Gina do to fuck over one of her supposed friends. She always gets away with everything and has no character development. Pretty much the only scenes in the show I don’t like are ones with Gina in them
Is it weird that i find her super hot
Oh the consistently awful obnoxious character the show told everyone they were supposed to like even though she had no redeemable qualities? Yeah she sucks
The show starts to die the moment she leaves 
People don’t like the character?! She’s a CHARACTER! She’s supposed to be unhinged, that’s the point. 😭
Nah she sucks.
I was ok when she left initially, because they gave her a decent send off. Then they brought her back in the ***wooooorst*** episode.
I didn't miss her much at all when she left.  The other characters were fun enough to replace whatever she was trying to contribute to.
Such fkn sookery. “Sexual harassment” lol.
Oh look it’s the same cactus same comments as last week. Exciting.
90% of the people in the comment section sound like such downers, I mean genuinely, how boring you all sound. Y'all sound like people that would complain about It'd Always Sunny characters being obnoxious. That's the character. I wouldn't have to want to be around someone IRL in order to enjoy their problematic character in a show.
Gina is an awesome character, and according to Terry Crews, Chelsea Peretti is outright the funniest cast member in real life.
Wait, this is my first time in this sub, do people hate Gina or something? She’s fucking hilarious
I like Gina too. Let the hate comense
I felt the same way I do whenever I finish peeing when she left just satisfied and ready to move on with my day she added zero value whatsoever
I would marry gina if my wife let me.
Seemingly not that unpopular opinion: Gina was a wasted character and I didn't really like her
So much baggage.
She's not good at being modest. Because she's great at it.
She was the only character that I actively disliked.
AGREED! Gina is FANTASTIC when used right. Absolutely amazing. Used wrong(later seasons), she can get annoying, but used right(early seasons)? 100/10
I disagree, respectfully. She was a bitch and always sexually harassed Terry. She had very few redeeming moments.
Gina was always the best part of the show.
Nope. Worst character. Worst person. Everything about her made me cringe.
Worst character on the show
…gina was one of my favourite characters
Finally someone with taste.
Best character.
worst character of any show i have seen, i always skipped her episodes
I adore Gina, one of the best parts of the show
i always found her annoying so didnt care tbh
Got downvoted to absolute smithereens when I said I liked Gina on here once, so I love seeing this. As others said, her character toward the end and in the comeback episodes was meh, but before that, she was hilarious and her delivery was spot on. Chelsea Peretti’s 2014 comedy special “One of the Greats” is also super fucking funny.
Worst character ever.
Gina was the worst part of the show
good riddance
I’m really looking forward to her leaving the show. I hate her damn character and how she is written. Nothing against the actress, she did what she was told to do. She never developes, she never changes for the better. She is an asshole at the beginning, she leaves an asshole. Good riddance.
Gina was the best
Wow people really hate Gina lmao, I didn’t know! I really enjoy the character, she makes me giggle! Especially the Coral Palms ep, and when she dazzles the psychologists at Holt’s birthday party.
I see most of the replies talking about the people who hate Gina. Can't find any reply that actually hating Gina.
I just finished watching the show for the first time and I really loved Gina and thought she was funny. I was sad when she left the show, but I was still enjoying it even without her there. It was wild to me when I saw that people absolutely hate her.
I LOVE Gina! She is so funny!
She knows so much!
 NOT GINA. I haven’t watched inna while but I loved her
You all take this great comedy way too seriously
IDGAF SHE WAS A BADDIE AND ONE OF THE FUNNIEST CHARACTERS 🗣️🗣️
The show got better when she left. I hated her so bad
Glad she left. She's not a good actress.. well, not as good as the others.
Oh no, the show genuinely gets a million times more enjoyable when you don't have to keep skipping Gina's annoying scenes.
My ass. I cringed at her scenes even on my first watch. That condescending tone isn't really my cup of tea.
My favorite Gina moment is when she got hit by a bus

-me everytime someone mentions Gina
Was happy she left
I hated every scene of Gina. Her acting is just god awful and she is so cringe. She had this annoying smile with everything she says and it’s just so cringe to me. And her lines aren’t even funny to me. Every other character is gold though. She didn’t make any sense in the show.
A lot of nose
I hate Gina. If she was never on the show at all, it would have been much better off for it...
Good riddance
First time posting in this subreddit, and zero idea what a can of worms I was opening. Had no idea my saying I liked a character would genuinely offend people

She’s half my reason to watch the show, I enjoy her!
Gina was great in the beginning. I know most folks don't like her and I get it, she doesn't fit the tone. I still think she's hilarious. 

Even as someone that loves Gina...

...she lost it after she left. She's not as charming or funny once she left and became famous.
Gina was great for the show, she had that special flavor. Evil funny and in the end not so evil after all
I think it’s interesting to see how ppl hate her “on principle” but praise equally “terrible” characters on other sitcoms. Barney Stinson from HIMYM comes to mind.
This is so funny to me because when I first watched B99 I HATED Gina. Idk why, I just genuinely hated the character and thought all of her parts were so irritating. 

However, on rewatch, I really like her character and think she’s a great addition to the show. IDK what had me so bothered LOL
Wait… people don’t like Gina? She’s an amazing character
They admitted as much and is why they agreed to part ways. Neither party wanted to continue with the character
I also feel that they lost the hand on her script.
My reaction to this post is little girl holding little boys hand emoji.
She's the Paris of people.
She usually rocked
I once asked Chelsea on IG about why Gina wore wolves on her clothes repeatedly, if that was in fact a "Chelsea thing" because she seems to post about wolves on SM.  She liked my comment so I took that as she had input into Gina's love of wearing wolves on her clothes., lol.
Had that same thought with the pic above.. I need this entire outfit..
I kinda like some of her moments with Boyle. Like when she makes a new mother dough so that he doesn't get kicked out of the family events.
SEEEEMMMYYEEEENNNNNNNTTT
YOU JUST DRANK CEMENT YOU JUST DRANK CEMENT
Don’t forget she was name dropped in her kindergarten teachers suicide note
Honestly I think my biggest issue with her wasn’t that she was a bad person, but she never learned or grew. Everyone else did. Gina was always the same awful and there wasn’t much character development to her
exactly. she’s not supposed to be a good person, but i love her being in the show because she’s so incredibly entertaining.
She added a delightful, absurd level of conflict. She was a great contrast to Boyle, who could take her apart without ever even really meaning to do so. Shes not Frank Burns levels of bad person… but she was a great source of comedy. Ironically, not unlike Frank Burns
I just hated her and found her annoying. She has almost no redeeming qualities whatsoever. Everyone else on the show is flawed but has so many good qualities that it makes their characters more rounded and less static. She is unlawful evil.
Gina was just meant to be like Kelly Kapoor from The Office, no?
Does nobody realize that her redemption arcs are just her justifications with no proof? Like caught out for bailing on Halloween? "I was studying." Her bailing from work? "I missed my kid." Her fucking jake over in high-school? "It was for you." There is more examples, but she only got away by making her own excuse without any showing it was true.
I love how being bad at roller skating is listed
“Maybe she fell into a dimension where she’s interesting.”
[deleted]
I disagree to an extent. Was she bad. Maybe. She had her moments of being a genuinely nice person, like helping Jake with the apartment issues. She wasn’t perfect, but she was a whole lot better than Charles ex-wife.
Madeline Wunch was the worst.
Nah Gina was classic. Loved her Character, always picking on Amy lmao
Ok, the way I busted out laughing when you put "couldn't roller skate" on the same list as the other things 😂
Yeah but she was hilarious.
She’s the wild card
I feel like this is the intended interpretation but that a lot of people girlbossify the uncomfortable parts of how her character is written and that it's not a good thing
*Terrance Jeffords!!*
To me it was just such forced unreal humor that was obviously written in a way to make it obvious that it’s forced unreal humor in some meta comedy bs that just drove me up the wall. Like some “it’s funny because it’s not funny” shit. Just painfully bad
I love to love her
Peggy wasn't bad! She was just confident. I've always found it weird that people disliked her. Like they see her confidence as unearned and it makes them mad. Instead, I see someone that has to bolster her confidence because her husband doesn't (and puts her down at times) so she overcompensates.

I realize that wasn't the point of your comment but still :p
I can’t get over ‘couldn’t roller skate for shit’ 😂
i love gina, easily my second favourite character. actually i hate no character in this show which is kinda cool.
I never really understood the character, was she supposed to be conciderd the 'hot girl'?

I feel like she acts that way but i find her quite un attractive
How dare you slander Peggy Hill like that
And once she left Amy has taken over with her extreme aggression and outbursts
She is not worse than Hitchcock who is an actual predator
Yeah as a former male victim of sexual assault/harassment from women, I just couldn't look past that part of her character, and it always disgusted me that they played it for laughs, and no one ever actually called her out on it.

Just hits too close to home.
The cement bit was top 10 on the show
Everything except the Terry stuff is just mild
yea it’s not like the rest of the cast didn’t do horrible shit like i dunno hake and amy tasing each other 
feeding terry radioactive chips 
witnessing bills decent but never doing anything to help him even tho there cops and helping people is there job / just using him for heist
jake becoming best friend with a guy and betraying him breaking his heart 
the list goes on and on cmon u cunt it’s a comedy show and none of the is supposed to be taken seriously 
gina rules 💯💯
Yeah exactly. Like sure, in real life she’d be a nightmare. but she’s a character on a show, and a good one at that 😂 I had no idea there was Gina hate
She was one of my faves as well, until she became an influencer. The episode where she stood up Jake and Terry and only called them so they can be her bodyguards ruined her for me. I didn't mind anything before that, but when she forgot her friends for the fame...
Totally agree! I was baffled when I joined this sub and found she had so many haters, and most of them are serious haters, not just a dislike
Strong agree. She's the funniest person on the show.
Boyle is awesome
Do you actually think Rosa is a good character?  Just finished the show and she was the only I didn’t find funny at all.  Her character is super inconsistent too.
[deleted]
Not every character in every show needs to grow as a person
That is the fun thing about these discussions or else this sub and many others like this wouldn't exist.
I found her grating. Just an overall annoyance more than laughs.
Kind of ironic, opening that assessment by namedropping the most painfully popular fictional character of all time.
*It’s real to me!*
"being humbled but I did like the dynamic she brought since she was the only main cast who wasn't a cop"

  
That is her whole point. What would be the value in humbling her? If this was a real person in the real world, any other character from the show could break her face in with a truncheon and face zero consequences for it. The joke is no one can behave like this around cops without an INSANE level of privilege.
I’m… okay on Amy. The character is just very uninteresting to me. She’s fine
I was happy. I know she's meant to be a bad person and all but I couldn't stand her
This may be the only instance of a show getting better after a character leaves
Same, like I know people say her being bad is the point, but she's hardly ever treated like that by other characters or the writers. She's instead presented as always right and everyone should always listen to her because of it. 

I liked her fine the first couple seasons (minus the harassment) but she became a bit of a creators pet and wore out her welcome IMO. Didn't really miss her.
*She became worse and*

*Worse per season and even worse*

*In the finale*

\- macrian

---

^(I detect haikus. And sometimes, successfully.) ^[Learn&#32;more&#32;about&#32;me.](https://www.reddit.com/r/haikusbot/)

^(Opt out of replies: "haikusbot opt out" | Delete my comment: "haikusbot delete")
^[Sokka-Haiku](https://www.reddit.com/r/SokkaHaikuBot/comments/15kyv9r/what_is_a_sokka_haiku/) ^by ^macrian:

*She became worse and*

*Worse per season and even*

*Worse in the finale*

---
^Remember ^that ^one ^time ^Sokka ^accidentally ^used ^an ^extra ^syllable ^in ^that ^Haiku ^Battle ^in ^Ba ^Sing ^Se? ^That ^was ^a ^Sokka ^Haiku ^and ^you ^just ^made ^one.
It's controversial because half the people (like you) think she is a pretty solid character, while the other half (like me) cannot stand her
I mean, a character can be funny in a ridiculous sitcom and still be someone I'd hate in real life. 

I am very glad real cops aren't like Jake. It just would not work in real life. But he's a fantastic character for this show.
You do realize it's a fictional show with fictional characters?
Then I have really good news for you…
which comedy characters would you like to be around irl? most comedy characters would be insufferable this is such a weird take lets be real.
It’s a TV show. All of them are fake people created to make you laugh. They would all be terrible in real life. Except for Terry maybe
Exactly this. In a show about “good cops”, she could make the negative comments, she contrasted so many of the other characters, and sometimes said what the audience was thinking. She was Holt’s first line of defense. She brought conflict when it was often needed, and all of that was lacking after she left. On top of that, her delivery was awesome.
*I was so happy*

*When she left, I liked the show*

*Even more without her*

\- Unfair-Instruction18

---

^(I detect haikus. And sometimes, successfully.) ^[Learn&#32;more&#32;about&#32;me.](https://www.reddit.com/r/haikusbot/)

^(Opt out of replies: "haikusbot opt out" | Delete my comment: "haikusbot delete")
Except that's the whole point. They're terrible people and their life sucks. That's the point. 

Gina is a terrible human being but somehow always seems to come out on top.
but what makes ASiP funny is exactly that: they all deserve each other. Same with Seinfeld. It's an assholes' universe. Gina would fit right in THERE.
Facts. She was a dick and owned it lol
If this is the biggest issue you have to deal with today, then I would say things are going very well for you.
This is so immature. Just ignore the post like an adult
Wow. Some of us are brand new here. Maybe you should simply scroll Past
[removed]
I agree. And, her behavior with Terry outright creepy
Same… Boyle has nobody to keep him in check, the wit is lacking. The variety just isn’t the way it was.
Bingo
Nice strawman
"Just because I think some character was funny, everyone else has to agree!!!1"
Well, Jennifer was the smartest person at WKRP
Common sitcom procedure… it’s rarely handled well, at least they actually eventually said she was pregnant, rather than have her continue while carrying throngs or standing behind cabinets, as other shows do.
A combination of budget cuts when the show flipped networks, and her wanting to be at home to raise her baby. It was an agreement on everyone’s part for her to leave
She is very attractive
Why would finding an attractive woman hot be weird
Towards the end the writers just went over the top, but she’s my favorite on the show- her interactions with everyone is great, and I love that she’s like a guardian for Holt, his first line of defense. And despite all her gruff, she actually gives a damn about everyone- even Hitchcock and Scully. And Chelsea just sells it
Clearly you are not reading the lower comments
There is a strangely high number of people whose line between fiction and reality has become very blurred. They sit down and watch a show about the hilarious hijinks of a fictional police precinct, but cast judgment on the actions of the characters as though those characters are real people. 

Most people, including yourself, can watch Gina do something funny and understand that the same action would not be funny if it happened in real life. Unfortunately, some weirdos out there seem incapable of making that separation.
>Had no idea my saying I liked a character would genuinely offend people

Welcome to the internet 

Hope you're ready for what happens when you say you DON'T Love a character 

Or god forbid, state something cannon that happened in the show which shows an aspect about a character someone disagrees with
I’ve been in this group for over a year and I’ve NEVER seen this Gina hate 😭 maybe my brain blocked it out because she’s (in my mind) 40% of what makes this show great
She was enjoyable to watch so I agree friend
I think she was hands down the best character in the show for the first 2 seasons.
Gina was awesome.  Bring your hate.
She’s good at first. But Flanders was too strong. 
around the 10th or 12th rewatch of the series, I just began to kinda hate her. 

'you drank cement' would be grounds for a lawsuit, at a minimum.

every other character grew into a better person, that's what I grew to love about the show. gina, however, grew worse.
Gina is the best but I guess I shouldn't be surprised that the "nice guy" white knights of reddit can't appreciate that
For real she’s my favorite!
Your comment has me also learning in real time that she isn’t universally cherished and to be honest I refuse to accept this information
Ive watched the series twice. This is the first post I've ever seen for the sub. And I am also genuinely surprised that people have such strong feelings about Gina.
Gina is my spirit animal. I have her face printed on a sweater I wear. /j
Every character is someone’s favorite and every character is someone’s least favorite.  She’s easily my least favorite.  That’s not to say I hated her or didn’t enjoy scenes she was in.  But, when she was no longer there I didn’t miss her presence.
As a huge Kroll show fan, I always watch Chelsea and see her as Farley... I love Gina and the energy she brings to the nine nine
She’s the third best character in the show
It's just that she's so annoyingly self centered and purposefully annoying... Even for a character... Rubs people the wrong way
Oh, I had no idea people hated her. She'd meant to do absolutely crazy stuff purely for the entertainment of the audience. She has some of the wackiest most memorable moments for me.
Highly recommend Chelsea Perreti’s (actress who plays Gina) Stand Up special!!! It’s very true to her and funny!
I was genuinely shocked when I joined this subreddit at the number of people who hated Gina. 

And it's not just "she's an annoying character" it's generally pure hatred 😂 She's my favourite character on the show, with Captain Holt a close second. They're a great double act, too.
The humour is in the fact that she is without any doubt, the worst character on the show, and likely the worst character in a sitcom since sitcoms were sitcoms.

Perhaps this is something to talk about with a medical professional.
It’s ok I love her too haha
I didn’t like her at first but then I missed her when she left.
I LOVE HER. I also love Judy Greer in Archer, Arrested Development, and whatever other thing in which she plays a crazy girl. Good.
Same!
I had no idea either, she's hilarious to me.
Now, based on your reaction, I know every single thing about you as a person.
She honestly was my favorite character besides Rosa and Captain Holt
I don't exactly agree. I have seen a lot of people dislike Barney as well but I feel the reason Gina has more hate is simply because she can be extremely mean for seemingly no reason. Whatever Barney does has a reason however stupid they might be. Furthermore he often gets called out by his friends.

But take Gina finding out Amy is claustrophobic and then locking her in a closet. Or the entire cement drinking bullshit. It's just mean and doesn't serve any purpose. And no one seems to actually call her out on these antics.
[deleted]
Agreed. 
Also, how are Hitchcock and Scully considered ok but Gina’s not? I’ve seen so much Hitchcock Scully love on here.
[deleted]
And do you know why is that? I'm really curious
Crying laughter face!
The writers incorporated a lot of the actors life into the characters, like terry really has a minivan IRL, andy and chelsea are childhood friends IRL, Beatriz is bi IRL and many other things
Okay you got me there. 

Boyle out-heels her in their interactions most of the time with his sexual innuendo after their affair ends.
I sing other things to the tune of “you just drank cement” ALL THE TIME. I cannot help it.
I always heard this as semen 😂
Gina pulling that on everyone is one of my all time favourite moments of the show I love her 😂😂.          
       
Plus “TRIPLEEE PRAANNKKKK!” On Amy.
Exactly. She was horrible and still got what she wanted because people catered to her. It’s a horrible character. It was always GINA GINA GINA
Never ever, not once did her shit come back to bite her. 
She’s not meant to be a good person but she’s meant to be lovable and charismatic. 
  
She’s meant to have a cool but mean kind of vibe. She’s basically meant to be this girl boss. Sexual harassment isn’t girl bossing though. 
  
They generally just made her a characterless and awful person who was such an awful character she frequently took everyone around her out of character. 
  
The issue is they really did write her to be somewhat liked. You weren’t meant to root against her. It’s hard to find someone charmingly mean as opposed to just insufferable when they’re straight up sexually harassing/assaulting characters whose actor has been vocal about his own real experiences with assault. 
  
In a show that makes its intentions about how you’re supposed to feel about certain issues and the characters abundantly clear almost all of the time almost in a preachy way Gina’s writing just feels hypocritical.
  
It’s just odd watching a guy who’s been vocal about his own sexual assault get assaulted in a tv show and have in played up for laughs for women when he repeatedly tries to get her to stop and says how uncomfortable he is. That shits not funny it’s just weird.
[deleted]
Boyle used me as an object
Kelly was a billion times more annoying than Gina. Kelly had no redeeming moments or positive qualities. Gina at least cares for her friends and loved them. Although, i have to admit, Return of the King is one of the worst episodes of the show. Writers gave her an amazing exit with four movements just to throw it away with that.
Yeah it sounds like gaslighting from an abusive person
That’s kind of weird though. 

“It’s great to get even” in a time when people are trying to change for the better.
The current political climate is about gender equality and change for the better how would a character like Gina "get even" when it's two different times. It's just hypocritical and dumb.
it’s not really a reversal when theres been examples of it happening that way round in media for decades

why wouldn’t people get upset at sexual assault being played for laughs?

Edit: downvoted for saying sexual harassment is bad let’s go
You know normalizing sexual assault in general isn't really good regardless, yeah? 

>It was great to see the roles reversed and see how many people get offended when the genders are switched.

News Alert: People who see something offensive happening get offended.
sometimes that niceness was railroaded though, i really wanted for her to make progress as a character
Wunch was an objectively effective administrator. She politicked and jockeyed to get to her position, but that's par for the course for positions at that level. 

Holt and the Crawford were doing the same thing when they were running for Commissioner.
Nah I hate that she picks on Amy.
oh, that's rough buddy (sorry for the reference) I know some people in a similar scenario
Physical violence and sexual harassment against men is often played for laughs in tv. It weirdly has seemingly never gotten better. 

However, I did enjoy how Terry would often defend himself and say it was inappropriate or to leave his body alone.
Ugh I hate that part. I find Gina entertaining a lot but the cement thing annoys me
She made them drink cement. 

That’s mild?
Let’s face it, most characters in most comedy shows would be nightmares in real life.  Still love them in their shows though!
Same! I came to enjoy her character on a second watchthrough, but yeah the way she treated terry was something I never could look past. 
Most of her other rude moments are there for comedy and she is really smart and caring in her own way- but there was no reason to write in those sexual harassment jokes! It’s even worse when you think about how terry crews has talked about his experiences with sexual assault. I really don’t know what the writers were thinking
But sexually harassing men is ok, all of us men want to be harassed by women \s
Strongly agree.
I disagree. I would rather discuss the things we like and enjoy rather than go full "look at my values" and go full morals against a gag character in an American sitcom written to be ridiculous and non realistic for the sake of braindead entertainment. 

I understand your point. I really do.
Sorry, I wasn't saying I dislike or like Amy haha, I just hate the Halloween heists

Edit: Boyle is probably my favorite character
They tried to redeem her too many times, or show that her flaws were actually good qualities.

When she "helped" Terry interview for new IT people I cringed, but the moral of the episode was that her unorthodox methods were actually the right approach.

I think if she was just a straight up villain I'd have liked her more.
Man, you need more life experience if that is the message you got, lmfao. I would hate to see what affect a casual commercial for dish soap has on your life.
I see this all the time in various fandoms (bitch wife Skyler anyone?) I love to hate Skyler/Walter White. But for me, Gina is too much *all the time*, it doesn’t circle back to “lovable scamp”. 


Adrian Pimento is that style of character done right, in my opinion. He’s very much “Adrian Pimento” all the time but I don’t grow exasperated with him.
true jake isnt remotely racist and power hungry enough to fit into irl police force
Most are great characters honestly even Boyle seems like a chill dude unless you make sandwiches for him lol
Yeah but I've dealt with messed up people similar and it's not fun
.....👂
Boyle for food advice 
Jake for hanging out 
Terry for nutrition advice / workout stuff
Holt to learn to be more professional / cultured
Rosa as a drinking bud so that tied with Jake 
And Scully and Hitchcock honestly best places to get foods and at good prices 

It's like in my office I have a cool co worker who travels a lot so he gives great advice on where to go abroad - one Is a gamer so I learn the newest games that are great for me and the kids also hang with one who is reliable and chill when having a beer or two  along with others to various degrees 

It depends on who I can gravitate to to certain aspects and how close I and them want to become - one co worker I had I legit call him my little brother and he has become family to me and my family especially my kids who he adores and helps out with and we share and have many things we talk and associate about like movies finances and well lots of stuff 

Again depends on the person 

Sorry this was long
I was gonna say what about Terry ?!?! 

Maybe if you mess with his yogurt
I mean if Gina made me laugh, sure. But no. 

I would hang around Jake and Amy. They have their flaws but everyone does. They're pretty decent people in my book
Good bot. Best bot ever 🤣
Theres also a "search" function for the subreddit. Its standard "redditiquette" to use the search bar to avoid making duplicate posts. Its not unreasonable to expect people to use the search before making a new post. 

If you're new here, you'll learn VERY quick that gina posts are so, so, SO common. Its a legit problem at times.
You're*
Its a comedy show lol relax it’s not that deep
“*I* saw this comment, so they *must* be talking about me!!!1!”
I dont think anyone argued she wasn’t a funny character, though.
Because its the character
I just started this show.last week and she's my favorite.  Now I'm sad knowing that she will leave, guess I better enjoy her antics while I can!

*I have the phone lines forwarded here, my cell is at 100% and I have 7 dinner mints in my purse. This is my life now.*
I'm one of those people that would find Gina funny irl too, i just enjoy the chaos really.
I mean the problem could be that there are people who can't separate the fact that a character is a terrible person from the fact that they are funny.  Gina is not a great person in the show most of the time.  She is also very funny.  I think the people that like her as a person in the show despite the way she treats people are probably more maladjusted than the people that hate her as person in the show
Or, a viewer can just find a character annoying. It doesn’t have to result from some inability to separate reality from fiction.

If anything I’d say it works in the opposite direction way more often. How many anti-heroes or outright villains have been elevated by fandoms to heroic status? More often than not it’s because they like the show and find the character enjoyable, not because they’re sociopaths.

Fwiw I LOVE Gina, but that doesn’t make my viewing or preference more valid than someone who finds her annoying.
Except a lot of people liked Pimento. A lot of people didn’t. It’s not a “I can’t tell what fiction is” and it’s pretty condescending to pretend that’s the only reason people don’t like a character. 
My issue with Gina, or this whole thing, is that the show has very few choice episodes where they want you to take it seriously, Terry suffering racism, Rosa leaving the NYPD and Amy's sexual harassment come to mind.
At those times they could address how Gina genuinely sucks and has to become better like the rest of the gang.

But here relentless personality does make her very funny, it's like watching a character from It's Always Sunny in another show 

I think the hate is warranted as they always call out characters in the show but never Gina.
Gina’s just annoying most of the time. 

I just don’t find the majority of her qualities funny like the writers were wanting. 

Yeah she had moments that made me laugh, but the majority of the time I was just waiting for her scenes to be done. 

It’s not about being able to separate fact from fiction. Gina would be a terrible person in real life, but that doesn’t mean I can’t also find her annoying in the show. I just don’t see the value she adds to the show.
You’ve just described every subreddit about every tv show. People get real weird about stuff, asking why a character said something in season 1 (because it’s a joke) and then says something that DISPROVES it in series 8 (because it’s also a joke) and acting like that character is then a canon liar or has a dark past or whatever.
People do this for “The Office” as well they all talk about Jim being some sort of dick because he pranks Dwight
I don’t understand the logic of ‘it’s a fiction’ thing. We can love and hate fictional characters for what these characters do in the show, otherwise let’s just stop talking about them as they’re fictional.
I think you are fundamentally misunderstanding why people dislike Gina, while throwing in some “goodness it’s tough to be so much smarter than all these idiots” as well.  

Actually, now I see why you like Gina.
I think you are fundamentally misunderstanding why people dislike Gina, while throwing in some “goodness it’s tough to be so much smarter than all these idiots” as well.  

Actually, now I see why you like Gina.
I think you are fundamentally misunderstanding why people dislike Gina, while throwing in some “goodness it’s tough to be so much smarter than all these idiots” as well.  

Actually, now I see why you like Gina.
It’s not funny to sexually harass someone
whilst some people do think like this, and its kinda stupid, I just don't like gina because every person feels like they have some sort of deeper emotional kinda thing going on, but i don't think gina ever really got that moment. and even when she did i felt it was railroaded
I don’t know if this is entirely the case, a character can be extremely toxic and sexually harass people and I can hate that character without thinking they are a real person.
I started disliking Gina because I was around similar people in real life. These people also liked Gina and tainted how I felt about aligning with them. 

I understand that it’s fiction but the narcissistic, garbage people are too alike.
A lot of people just want their shows to be 'wholesome' and 'safe'. Funny is funny to me. It's just a show, not my therapist. 🤷🏼‍♂️
beautifully said
I'm genuinely surprised people don't like Gina. She's easily my favourite and really funny. Why is she hated? That's crazy. I don't see her being more ridiculous than anyone else.
It’s insane! 

Who are these people? They do it for The Office, Parks and Rec. Hell, Parks and Rec had a whole final season to service these people and show you every action until their death!

I saw Jerry die, why was I at Jerry’s funeral?
The same thing happens across so many sitcoms it’s nuts. People analysing comedies so seriously
Tired take. Plenty of people dislike Gina for reasons other than literally being unable to separate truth from fiction.

Do you really have to project fundamental flaws on people who disagree with you to rationalize their different opinion?
Or some people don’t like bad people fiction or not she’s entitled selfish demanding rude and just overall a bad friend why should I like her. No one is “ incapable of making the separation” some people just watch tv differently from you and that’s ok that doesn’t there weird because they don’t like an objectively bad person hope this helps👍
*canon 

*corrects in smug Holt voice*
She was awesome at first and at some point she started to be just annoying
Solid observation!
I’m very much a member of the G-Hive
Ah! I didn’t know about that, thank you!
I love them as a duo!
It's been a while, but I don't remember Barney ever actually being rewarded for being a prick, like Gina is.

Like, he *constantly* faces backlash from women, his friends, and the universe itself, for being the dog he is.
I mean you’re not wrong but if we’re comparing real-world afflictions: Barney literally sold a woman and should probably be in jail for most of the things he’s done lol
In HIMYM, we know at all times that Barney loves his friends and would do anything for them.  

Can’t say the same for Ginabut that could be the fact that she is more coworker than buddy.
>all i tend to see about him is how lovable he is or whatever.

Because his role is the [woobie](https://tvtropes.org/pmwiki/pmwiki.php/Main/TheWoobie). CAUTION: TV Tropes Link. He doesn't benefit for his creepy actions, and the universe within the show seemingly punishes him for his lack of social awareness. Meanwhile, Gina's actions never result in negative backlash toward her, and culminate in her becoming a millionaire. 

People don't like watching crappy people succeed, especially without personal growth or comeuppance. There's no catharsis associated with the character.
Not a massive hater/lover of any of these characters, but I think Scully is the only ‘loved one’ out of those two from my experience, and it’s mainly because of the way he talks to Jake.

I’ve seen the opposite with Hitchcock, he’s usually pretty disgusting, although I must admit he has a few very funny moments. The reason I think people don’t complain about Hitchcock as much is because the rest of the fictional cast treat him in line with the creep he is, he’s not really ever right and regularly gets shunned for being perverted. 

This is in contrast to the Gina issue that everyone here has mentioned, in that she can be very mean at times, but is often praised by the end of the episode.
Because every single person in the entire show is always talking about how a awful person hitchcock is. Nobody laughs it off or goes "well thats just hitchcock for you haha" they are repelled, disgusted and sometimes upset by the things he does and says.

Scully is really not that bad? He's really noce and like the worst thing he does is being friends with hitchcock I guess but thats about it.
Personally not at all. I love the actress. But I hate the character! It could have been played by a man, another woman, whatever. I just don't like Gina. My personal opinion though.
Then why be that person? You have dozens and dozens of comments of people voicing exactly what it is they dislike and now everyone gets their free misogynist head which only serves to invalidate their opinion.
You don't have to wonder. That's it. That's the reason.  

A lot of characters in a lot of shows do absolutely terrible things and nothing is ever said because it's entertaining, etc.... You know the entire reason we watch shows. Gina is hateable for so many reasons and yet they always go with "poor Terry" who never really tried to stop it and from his position he would and could have it he didn't want the attention (if they were real people, which they're not)
Bet it has something to do with how insufferable the character was. Imagine for 6-7 years your job is to basically just be an asshole to the people working alongside you
Does this mean Lo Truglio is a lesbian in real life?
Yes! It has been stuck in my head for years!
it’s not like the show is a stranger to serious topics (and usually handling them well imo)

also i feel like it’s worth mentioning the photos she wanted were non consensual
Samberg is pretty blind to any men's issues.  Men being harassed/attacked is a comedic point for him pretty regularly.  Like he jokes semi-regularly about men being raped, in prison and otherwise.
literally since season 1 the show has talked about how bad the old times were when it comes to equality, in that case especially homosexuality (though holt does point out amy and rosa would have never made detective either)

at no point in the episode does holt say he dislikes straight people or something to “get even”, same thing happens when rosa’s parents don’t accept her or terry gets profiled
She also constantly sexually harassed Holt in way worse ways than Gina. Gina just threw lustful comments towards Terry and they weren't even serious. 

Wunch used her position to repeatedly grope Holt in the pretense of body searches. Which is made significantly worse once you remember the whole reason their feud happened is that she wanted to sleep with him and he couldn't provide it.
I’d love to see Gina pick on you….
Jk
Compared to harassment that's some looney tunes shit
holt would be amazing real life
nah i think its okay coz terry is black. do i have to do the /s?
more irony -- you realize you are increasing the discussion of this topic by contributing to it, right? And you're kinda stating your values by stating your preference to do otherwise.
They’re B99’s version of Community’s paintball episodes
I really don't like any of the heists after 3 and even 3 is a bit of a stretch. Idk, I just can't get behind the elaborate plotting, it all feels like the heist movie episode of Rick and Morty which I also didn't really enjoy.
No the moral of the story was how fucked the department was and how not a single one of them is EVER PROFESSIONAL for even one second... so interviewing them in a calm, professional, dignified manner was doing a HUGE disservice to these poor, unsuspecting victims who might have otherwise fallen for Holt's "we are a professional group of people" schtick.
Humans are shit.
It's a fucking TV show.
so are you hanging out with your friends because of specific traits aswell? coz i dont think about it this way. and i would not trust scully with anything ever, especially food. that dude does not seem particularly picky. jake is reasonable i guess coz i think a gaming session or drinking buddy he would fit really good. boyle would annoy the living shit out of me
Terry exploded an office by slamming a door.
How much of a loser do you have to be to say reddiquette Jesus fucking Christ haha
Learned something new, search function and the term, reddiquette, thank you!!
I just learned that this sub is toxic! 

Very welcoming of you
That is until you just drank the ceeement
telephone exultant oatmeal bear relieved provide spoon groovy wipe snails

 *This post was mass deleted and anonymized with [Redact](https://redact.dev)*
A great example of this is Principal Ava from Abbott Elementary. Also a truly awful person but she’s funny and you understand that this show is fictional and you shouldn’t get so pressed about it 🤷🏻‍♂️
You think that someone’s opinion on a comedy tv show character means they’re probably maladjusted?
The biggest thing is she doesn't really ever get comeuppance.
Nah the people that hate her are straight up waving lgbtqzlkhnmdgh I lost my will to give ashit bout  the pride flag

>people who can't separate the fact that a character is a terrible person from the fact that they are funny

What about the opposite? I find her funny because she is not doing these negative things to me, but rather just acting on the TV. But I also don't like her personality and how she takes advantage of her "friends" and never suffers any consequences from her horrible behaviour
I love that guy in everything I’ve ever seen him in .  He’s so over the top hilarious!
I never said it’s the only reason people don’t like a character, you misunderstood what I said. There are tons of reasons to not like a character. 

Disliking a character solely because the things they do for laughs in a sitcom would be awful in real life is a pretty stupid reason to dislike a character. And that’s what I’m griping about. Not people who dislike Gina because they find her generally unfunny, or they think she lacks depth, etc. You do you. But there is literally a person in this thread who hates Gina because she “normalizes sexual harassment,” and that sort of perspective is absolutely bonkers.
Yeah, it's not just that she's an unpleasant character, or even that she's not funny - it's that the show never lets her be *wrong.*  Her story arcs always end with her being vindicated and escaping any consequences for her actions, and often with the people she'd been fucking with agreeing with her.  Aside from frustrating the audience's basic sense of fairness, it also prevents her character from showing any growth.  She's exactly the same person at the end of the show that she was in her first episode.
It's a problem I have with comic relief characters in general. It's frustrating watching X character get ripped into for having 'bad trait X' then having comic relief character come in and do things that embody 'bad trait X' and the characters that were just castigating a character for it now slap their knee and go 'that's our clown!'

It was like in Bojack Horseman, having Todd drop the whole 'you are the problem with you' speech to Bojack, when he instigated a genocide, a race war, and created a literal sexual harassment robot.
what do you mean become better like the rest of the gang? It seemed to me like deep down they were all genuinely good cops, putting the sometimes over the top comedy aspect aside. Rosa leaving the NYPD because 'all cops are bad' didn't make sense to me. Her and her precinct were really good cops, wouldn't she want to stick by them and do her best to make change from the inside? rather than leaving to become a PI who's also a pot head. I couldn't even watch the final season, it was obvious the producers caved and couldn't paint police in a positive light due to the civil unrest of the country. I mean, they already had the entire season written, and it was scrapped for a more woke writing approach. Funny how it ended up being the last season. You may proceed to blast me into oblivion now, I'd expect nothing less
She doesn’t need to be called out or held accountable for her actions because she’s not a real person and they aren’t real actions. Virtually everything the character does is in service of being funny. When she does things that would be morally reprehensible in real life, she’s doing it because the writers wanted to mine her for comedy. There doesn’t need to be a moment where the character “becomes better” because 99% of the audience understands that this is all in service of making them laugh. 

Similarly, Homer Simpson doesn’t need to be confronted for choking Bart. The Todd from Scrubs doesn’t need to be confronted for sexually harassing women and men in the workplace. Barney Stinson doesn’t need to be confronted for his womanizing. Selena Meyer doesn’t need to have impeachment articles brought before Congress for her repeated ethical violations while holding office. 

It’s just a sitcom.
she doesn’t suck though 🤷🏻‍♀️
And to be clear, it’s completely reasonable for you to feel that way. I’ve got plenty of sitcom characters that I can’t stand for similar reasons. Barney Stinson annoys the hell out of me, for example. 

My issue is solely with people who can’t differentiate between a sitcom and the real world, and they actually believe that enjoying a character like Gina or Barney means you’re okay with sexual harassment or manipulating women or things like that.
Her zingers are pretty good though
It’s shocking how difficult media literacy seems to be for vast swaths of people. Can’t have a character behave in morally dubious ways for a comedic bit without people thinking that the show is endorsing said behavior unless explicitly told otherwise
I’m not referring to people who simply dislike a character. We all do that. I’m referring to people who ask questions like “Why is Gina still allowed to work there even though she sexually harasses Terry all the time???”

Those people strike me as being a bit detached from reality. Not people who are just like “I don’t find Gina funny” or “I find her character irritating.”
That’s totally valid, by no means am I saying that people shouldn’t dislike her character for any reason at all. I just roll my eyes at people who take sitcom characters and view them through real-world morality.
You can hate a character for any reason you want, but if other characters in the show don’t react to their behavior as though it’s legitimately toxic or harmful, then you as the viewer are not supposed to be interpreting it that way. That is to say, if you find yourself more offended by Gina’s actions than the other B99 characters are, then you’re taking the show far too seriously and it might be good to take a step back and remember it’s a sitcom.
I feel like you’re an example of exactly what I’m talking about. You’re saying she’s a bad friend, and an “objectively bad person” when she doesn’t even exist.
*classical music*
Is Canon your favourite composer?
Yeah, the writers really know how to manipulate us. That was their entire goal.
I think the writers went overboard and felt that they had to make her more and more outlandish, like they were trying to top themselves, and lost sight of how grand her simple one liners and devotion to Holt could be. She started to border on being a cartoon, but Chelsea sold whatever she was given.
I wanna say it’s on Netflix???? Maybe Prime??? It’s been awhile since I watched it but it was delightful!
He faces backlash sure but he canonically sleeps with a ton of women, gets well paid, and generally has the life that he wants to have. That’s pretty rewarded.
yeah chelsea peretti is a great actress and played the character to perfection, I just don't like the character
Let me preface by mentioning that I dislike Gina for a whole host of reasons, and I understand that they are in large part subjective. Her character archetype has worked for me in other characters, just not her. I don't like her because her brand of comedy doesn't work for me, and that's fine.  


However, I find her treatment of Terry especially distasteful.   


B99 is a show that couldn't work in reality. Its cast would be locked up or sued before the first season ended. I agree that we like to watch sitcoms because of how it exaggerates reality, and allows us to set aside moral qualms.  


But, B99 is also a show that is, and continually attempts to be, political. Not only that, it's also incredibly liberal, with Moo Moo being the go to example. It's also unlike many shows of its genre, and plays with sitcom structure and tropes a lot. It weaves a lot of its messaging into the jokes (like Jake being an ally and a feminist), and so naturally many of its jokes wouldn't outright contradict things we know about the characters. (i.e Jake wouldn't make degrading jokes about Amy being a woman).   


So for Gina to be that contradiction, it really is unnerving. I actually preferred Gina when she had some heart to her, and in my opinion, it made her incredibly likeable, but those moments are very sparse.   


For god's sake, they made an episode about male-on-female SA, so it's inexcusable they let her behavior slide. The justification that it's just a sitcom and they do terrible things all the time becomes moot when you're making it into a hot button issue that an episode centers around. You didn't hear them joking in the last season about how black people are shoot on sight.  


And just to add, Terry shouldn't have had to "stop" anything. Why does someone need power to instill common human decency? It's the exact same rhetoric in Moo Moo. Why should Terry be a police officer to stop injustice?  


Gina Linetti is a character that fulfills her role well, and the actress is incredible. Gina Linetti's harassment goes against the spirit of the show itself and will forever be a stain on an otherwise impressive performance.
Yes, and also has 2 buttholes
Yup. A favorite is “you’re a stupid cat,” to my stupid cats (whomst I love very dearly).
Holt talking about how the past was before is completely fine. How is that related to Gina sexually harassing Terry? Terry is the most wholesome dude and clearly the victim. How is Gina getting even with men that sexually harass women in the past by harassing Terry?
I thought it was because he embarrassed her in front of Derek Jeter
Or fit, what's the point of those muscles? Isn't it so women look and grope them?
Ok bro.
Oh community paintball (and blanket vs pillow actually) are FAR better than any b99 halloween heist
and i was thinking "bot" when you echoed the knowing-it's-fictional sentiment that typically gets attached to this subject...
👆
Well depends - friends are friends you take the good and bad - life friends well that's those you go through the mud with - but Brooklyn 99 is a work environment and if I treated it like that then that's how I would do it at first 

Making friends I find a common ground then it extends after that of course but always have a limit for one another a boundary of sorts 

Boyle seems like he attaches hard to anyone that shows him interest but thats not terrible but as you said annoying
Happy to help! The search function has definitely saved my butt *multiple* times
Telling someone to use common curtesy isnt toxic nor did I say it in a toxic manner. I did not demean them or call them names. I simply stated matter-of-fact-ly that they should use common curtesy and explained what common curtesy is expected of them. I may not have done it in the most sensitive and considerate way, but that does not make it toxic. They're not a child who made a mistake; they're an adult that should know better. 

But yeah, this sub can definitely get toxic. Its not as bad as r/3Dprinting but waaaay worse than r/NoMansSkyTheGame
Literally about to comment this lol
Scully seemed to love it
i’m obviously not a native speaker. It took me until my third rewatch before i realised she meant cement as in concrete’s material. I always thought she said “you just drink semen” and i was like “where did she get that much of semen without a dick and balls?”
I laugh my ass off at Always Sunny, despite them being truly terrible people. It’s hard to even pick what the worst thing each character has done. Even Charlie, arguably the least awful of the gang, has beaten up kids over a bike and ripped Santa’s throat out with his teeth.

Every time Charlie attacks the mall Santa, from the second he sits on his lap, I lose it. Kids and parents are running and screaming, one little girl is just standing there wailing. And I’m laughing myself into next week at those kids who are traumatized watching Santa bleed all over the floor. It’s hilariously awful.
Ava (who is hysterical, really that whole cast is great), like Gina, has some sincere moments when the situation is pressed. Both defend their people like rabid guard dogs, but will deny it if those people asked. It’s all about keeping up that “I’m untouchable” front.
The difference being that Ava is actually funny.

Gina is just shitty.
You say opposite but everything after that seems in line with what I said so I'm a little confused.
I kind of see your point. But to me it’s pretty bonkers that your stance is if somebody says “hey this character sexually assaults people and we played it for laughs. I don’t like that” that they are the bonkers person. 
Except that’s not what you said. You created a strawman, or rather a group of strawmen, that constitutes a “strangely high number of people” that dislike a character because they can’t distinguish between reality and fiction, calling them weirdos, whatever.

Super pretentious and also silly, imo. Whether a viewer dislikes a character because they find them annoying or because they think the character represents problematic tendencies played tastelessly for laughs has nothing to do with some divorce from reality. That’s such a weird leap to make.
Lmao why is it bonkers to not be amused by sexual harassment? Are you serious?
I dislike the Gina character because most of the time I find her significantly less funny than the rest of the cast. Or perhaps better put, I think the humour the writers have for her is different to the others. That is a balance though, A lot of the time she is funny, I just dont' find it always 'fits'. 

  
I am new to this subreddit, but have been watching and rewatching B99 pretty much since the first episode aired (by accident originally). I assume most people who watched the show probably loved her. I'm kind of surprised the character is so disliked.
That’s literally the joke.
Wow, been awhile since I reached bojack. I wonder if I'm in a good enough headspace to go through that again.
I'm talking about Gina, not Rosa, tho

Gina doesn't change and she isn't a good person deep down, she's a mean bully (which is funny because there's no stakes) and she continues to be that even when she left the show

About Rosa, I agree with you, it didn't make sense for her especially to leave like that
i think it's the tone of the show that can affect this, B99 can be really really deep sometimes, but when one character never really has that "deep moment" (title of your sex tape), that character feels less 3d. i feel every character except for minor ones like pimento and like bill had those moments, but as far as I can recall, Gina didn't have that moment, and I really really wish she did.
And that's your opinion, I like my characters a little more grounded than that

Loon at Rosa, she's cartoonishly violent and emotionaly stunted, but to me it's funnier because in the show she actually works those issues out 

I'm not a big fan of shows that have big emotional and character driven moments, or even seasons, to drop the ball on characters from the main cast, if you're giving almost everyone but one character development, that's either because you didn't know how to or you wrote yourself into a corner. Tbh, I'm not a big fan of any of the shows you wrote except Scrubs, and even then I need to watch it with a big bucket of salt by my side, it's aged very poorly. I can still disconnect the funny from it, tho, I think Gina is legitimately the funniest character in the show especially when paired with Holt and Kevin but I can still say that she isn't a well written character (tho, that is very subjective, she is well written in the sense that she is funny).

That's why I talked about those big serious moments in the show, it isn't just trying to make people laugh, it takes stances in important issues and addresses them as they're a big thing in our day to day. HIMYM never does that, IASIP never does that (in fact, it does the opposite) and that's why I give them a pass. B99 doesn't, and having a character like Gina being praised in the show by the other characters that do become better feels jarring to me. I liked that they wrote her out of the show when they realised the character didn't fit anymore.

But, again, that's my opinion. We don't have to agree.
That's a weak excuse and you're being deliberately contrarian.
As a joke delivery device? Absolutely not, she's hilarious
Ahhh okay I see. Yeah I get you. 

I took your comment to mean EVERYONE who had an issue with Gina. Fair enough, those who can’t separate the two can conflate liking a character on a show to meaning you would like them in real life.
Well I think a lot of it comes down to the availability of media. Brooklyn 99 is easily streamable and re watchable, so people pick up on ‘inaccuracies’ with whole seasons between them. When you could watch a show once a week on a broadcast channel, that didn’t matter. It still shouldn’t matter because these are not real people in a real situation, but lots of viewers become so enthralled it seems real. 

But most of the time, any question posed on any of these subs can be answered with ‘because it’s funny’.
Ah yeah I know what you mean now. It doesn’t particularly irritate me but I see the point
Normalizing sexual harassment is never well written or appropriate. I don’t care if it is a sitcom.
Ok? I don’t like a character in a show because there a bad person that’s normal you don’t like scar from the lion king or medusa because there bad people and the only reason you like Gina is because she’s a protagonist
Well, the 1812 Overture at least.
*scoffs* ridiculous, now Mahler was one in-your-face bad boy, that’s a favorite right there.
He sleeps with a ton of women, because he tries to hit it off with an insane number of women. Canonically, for every woman he sleeps with, he's (violently) rejected by like 5 others.

He's well paid, because his job is literally to be the fall guy for an international company doing shady business deals. Like, his very contract is to get paid a ton of money, and take the blame when shit hits the fan.

Have you even *seen* the episodes explaining that he is pretty much the exact opposite of what makes him happy? Like, even without reading into his overinflated ego as a defense mechanism, they're outright saying that the guy isn't who he wants to be.

He doesn't get rewarded for anything. Any bet, every prank, each challenge, he's either losing, or pulling a pyrrhic victory. Like when he ran a marathon and was rubbing it in?

He was mugged in the subway because of it. He was surrounded by 5 guys as his window moved out of the frame, and it was played for laughs. Again, he was surrounded by 5 guys in a new york subway, because he had a gold medal hanging around his neck, and he's too sore from the marathon to follow their demands. And "Something bad is going to happen to Barney now" is the final punchline of the episode.   


What's Gina's payoff for making her friends drink cement? Repeatedly?    
Becoming a millionaire influencer.
I know you got shot in the butt but PLEASE stop calling them buttholes!!
my point was agreeing that the “getting even” argument the other person made is ridiculous, and every other time the shows talked about the issues of the past there’s never been attempts to “get even”
She embarrassed herself in front of Derek Jeter!
Arguable. In general i agree that Paintball beats Halloween Heists, but i´d definitively put the Third Heist above some Paintball Episodes and the Fith Heist is my favourite out of all Heist and Paintball Episodes.
very fair assessment my man. have a good one!
That’s your opinion. Some people find Gina very funny. Some people find Ava very unfunny. 

The point isn’t who you do and don’t find humorous, the point is how ridiculous it is to dislike a character because you’re taking their fictional hijinks and interpreting them as though it’s a real person committing those acts. Everyone knows that someone like Ava could never get away with the shit she does as principal of the school. But the stuff she does is all in service of the plot and the humor of the show, so it doesn’t need to be run through a real life morality filter.
I guess I don’t really understand why, if you so genuinely believed that a TV show character is normalizing something like sexual assault, you would watch the show and enjoy the rest of the characters. Shouldn’t you be disgusted by the writers who made the decision to “normalize sexual assault” and presumably not watch the show entirely?
I can't imagine these people watching Always Sunny or even Seinfeld for that matter.
in some ways Bojack is better the worse you already feel going in. I remember one time I ordered pizza with banana peppers and anchovies and immediately craved a binging of Bojack and Archer. I was so nauseous.
Oh, I see, i misinterpreted what you said,I thought you meant like "Gina has to become better like the rest of the gang became better" not Gina should be better, like the rest of the gang lol my bad. yeah youre right about Gina for sure although she does have her softer side moments here and there. her insults dont feel like theyre coming from a place of malice all of the time but she was definitely the most eclectic (her word) of the bunch haha
Just for clarity, I’m totally with you that often, characters are a lot more interesting when they occasionally have moments that feel more like the real world, like Rosa’s conflict with her parents over her sexuality. Gina is certainly nowhere near the best-written character on the show. 

I’ve just had a bug up my ass for years about people who seem to think a character is not funny (or in some cases, downright awful) solely because their actions would be horrifying in real life, because that ignores the fact that sitcoms are so deliberately disconnected from realism 90% of the time.
Then maybe sitcoms aren’t for you, if you can’t distinguish between humor and “normalizing sexual harassment.” And I’m not saying that to be a snarky asshole, you genuinely might want to consider not really trafficking in these types of shows because almost none of them are going to align with your worldview.
no, you don't toss a whole thing out just because you recognize it has weak points.
I love Always Sunny.  The difference is, AS is aware that the characters are terrible people, and terrible things happen to them because of their actions.

I admit to not caring for Seinfeld, though.  Never been a fan of Jerry Seinfeld’s standup.
Oh, well, I get that

I don't think Gina isn't funny, or characters like that, at first watch I'm usually pretty neutral, it's just as the show develops a theme and I rewatch it I find that those characters start being frustrating. Her joke moments are still great comedy, it's just that a show, even a comedy one, is a vehicle for plot and when plot doesn't happen for one character (of the main cast) then it feels jarring

Kind of like an uncanny valley for plot development, so she's a deeply loved character that ends up being basically Mel(clay)ipnos
[deleted]
Who cares about his standup? It’s awful. LD and the supporting cast is why the show rocked. Jerry was a name. Seinfeld was a show.
given they treated the issue of sexual harassment with more care later on, I'd take it as a weakness that they didn't do so earlier. it's unfortunate to be part of a toxic culture and contributing to it, it'd be worse if not given the chance to improve on it.
