Unlucky ranked match
Coming off a 4 game losing streak BTW 😀

The sad part is that ppl like blitz wont get banned as easily as getting chat restricted unless you do a riot ticket with a power presentation on why blitz taking blue is trolling.
It took me a min to realise it was your own teammate blitz and not the enemy. That’s a tilter
Just a lowlife, waste of air, no better than a particle of dust. Report him manually
I hope you made a manual report
and i bet the blitz got zero consequences while jinx gets chatbanned for a month for saying why
What a fucking asshole lol. 

I would've flashed the wall to auto+smite at the second pull tho, fuck that lol
That jinx leashing long past the point where she needed to go to lane to catch first melees...rare sight from an adc, too bad you 2 had blitz
I will never get such people. Imagine going out of your way to make others feel shit.
unlucky but like surely we kite the camp after the first time it happens
Does he have beef with you coming from previous games or something
skill issue
Did Riot ban Jinx for saying "Why?"?
the sad part is this guy probably won't get banned, but if you made a typo while asking him why he hooked you would get banned for a slur.
At least you won lol
I'd just leave the game after that one, not gonna deal with that bullshit and waste my time
Had a fkn idiot last night in ranked 'jump on this account to practice adc, look me up I'm good'

Goes 0/7 vayne.
Sooo umm he'll get banned right??
TIL you can grab jungle mobs as blitz
Average lobbies these days. I hate the human race and their inability to just not be fucking turds.
Dude kite the buff towards gromp, that could save you.
Took me a minute to realize this was a friendly blitz 

I was wondering why bot and mid hadn’t collapsed on him yet
I had a game where a syndra grabbed my red and threw it in the dragon pit, and then did it again on my second clear lol. I hated it though.
dudes in this reddit would go: "just scale bro, play around him. Its up to you to carry losing is your fault."  


Also when are we getting ranked IP bans?
thanks for the idea >:)
God forbid you called him out in chat for this. We at riot prefer to punish responses to egregious actions than the actual action themselves
I wouldve just farm the whole game without getting objectives so i wont get reported 🤣🤣
But why are you posting a clip from a game that happened 34 days ago? That Vi's tm won? And you are acting like this just hapenned to you?

Blitz got banned btw.
the sound in lol is so bad, every skills kind of sound the same lol.
Pretty fucking funny
just looked up his account hes been doing this for DAYS since the 16th I hope hes permmed by now look at his match history what a loser
u could avoid second grab by walking blue buff farther in bush but u just stood there. so enemy blitz could do the same with u
Complain about him once in chat or ask to report and you're the one getting restricted. Riot ban system devolves into complete degeneracy.
this is degenerate shit from blitz but u couldve tried to pull it out a bit
And all you get are automated/pre-written responses from support
At best, you will get the ban as you will surely underperform after a start like this.
As long as you don't say peepee poo poo in chat this is perfectly acceptable behaviour.

Except if you're a streamer, then he would be banned instantly.
He probably did get banned considering he only played 2 games after this and hasn't played a single game since on that account.

Also crazy that this guy had 63,6% WR on blitz with an average KDA of 2,3/11,6 /12,8..
Oh I didn’t even notice that, wtf…
Can't even block the hook
I would be more surprised if it was the enemy blitzcrank
Holy shit i gotta get blitz and do that to enemy
This is legitimately a sub human
Calm down LowTierGod lol
What exactly is a manual report and how does it differ from in-game and post-game lobby reporting?
Jinx was such a sweetheart for still helping...
Yeah man this is some degenerate shit lol I can't think of a time I was so mad at someone online that I'd go this far. Pretty sad.
We actually won this game somehow. It's about a 50-minute game with Blitz trolling.
My mental state was gone. That was my last game for the night 💀
The blitz was his teammate
Nah. Just a platimun troll player
Honestly facts 💀
It's confirmed the account was banned
Honestly, it was surprising. Blitz was trolling the whole game 😭
Well OP won and BK got banned
As a current Kled main. All I need is me and my Skarl
👀
True. It's a bit misleading, I was pretty pissed off. I'm just posting past clips before I start posting current clips. Thank you for letting me know he got banned. 😭
theres so much valid arguments you can make on why dota is a better game than league and you really choose sound effects sounding the same...

come on lil bro, be better.
Dota characters are all forgettable except for maybe Marci. Maybe because I played League before Dota that I'm not a big fan.
As I posted this, I laughed as well. I was just pissed off at the time 💀
I was done mentally. I didn't care anymore. That's an ally blitz
I was already done mentally
And then you get banned bc of forgetting smite in a normal game where you swapped roles with a friend, apparently
do you honestly think they can send everyone an instant personal message?
And then you're getting banned for attitude.
Whatever the odd stats he has, we dont have to deal with that blitz for a while.
Why? this is the go to play when you have vision on the enemy team as blitz. nothing snowballs the game as hard as fucking up the junglers first clear
opgg check?
A manual report is submitting a ticket to riot on site with video as evidence.
I don’t even blame you . Your stance looked defeated and I would’ve afk farmed the whole game until loss
Yeah im sure you showed that keyboard whos boss
so you can see him coming back on the mini map
Sounds like a regular day in elo hell
do it then little dude
I haven't tried dots yet because the thought of learning a new game (even though it's a similar style) is daunting as hell
Yeah I get you. For sure after a 4 losing streak I stop tilting and just start to see the irony. League is a beautiful game sometimes xD
Clearly *intentional* griefing
Forgetting smite obviously shouldn't be a bannable offense, but come on.
Of course not, but answering the questions before receiving a non-content answer when there was an automated message before would be nice to have.
Because everyone griefs these days. All anyone does is tilt because their last game sucked or who knows what
I wasn't trash talking or being toxic. Just joking around as he spoke like him, my bad if it's misunderstood.
Oh, I need to take advantage of that.  I always just do lobby reports and put game timestamps in the comments.  Wonder if this works better.
How exactly do I do this? I tried to once, found a part of the riot website where you can report people, but when I tried to it just said that I had already reported them in game. I'm also not sure if I could even add video evidence on that "form" or whatever I filled out
He can also come from any angle to pull again. Or troll pull gromp after.
[removed]
I was thinking about this yesterday Bruh the amount of minutia between each game is overwhelming as hell. People that play league all the time don’t realize it unless they try getting friends to learn to play for the first time new players have to reaaalllyyy want to play these games to actually get anything out of them.
Plus i don't have an OPGG since i stopped playing a while ago
>Just joking around as he spoke like him

spoke like who?
It's a more personal interaction with riot.

They are required to inspect your ticket and have a human write up an email basically answering your ticket. You are not allowed to know what the outcome is in terms of if the person faces punishment that you reported but it does give you the guarantee of a human checking the evidence
https://support-leagueoflegends.riotgames.com/hc/en-us/requests/new?ticket_form_id=21152806417811
He did troll pull gromp. Just not in the clip 💀
so many valid points and can't make one? such a dumb little dude

haha triggered till need edit xD xD xD
"Your life is as valuable as a summer ant. I'm gonna stomp you. You gonna keep coming back. I'm seal up all my cracks. You gonna keep coming back. Why? Because you keep smelling the syrup."
LowTierGod? " You should kys now....To leave somebody else a piece of that oxygen in, the ozone layer so we can breathe inside this blue trap bubble"
😮
Hmm, so it's a choice between guaranteed human interaction or the possibility of the dopamine hit when seeing the "we punished a player you reported" notification upon login 🤔
Do I need to know how to make/edit videos on my computer in order to send them?
[removed]
You get both
Nope, after every match there is an option to download replay, and use red button to record certain part of the replay. Then replay is located somewhere around Documents ----> League of Legends ---> Replays
why cry so hard dude

dont mad at me, i didnt make u dumb lol. 

when stop crying ready give valid points little dude? xD
This content breaks rule #3
Oh cool, thanks
lol hope you ignore that guy flaming your picture and such
mark is a proud american 
bang bang, ya'll 🔫💥 

Hello! Thanks for posting. This is a reminder about the rules. Make sure the post is appropriate and not to delegate or go against Reddit policy or r/Markiplier Rules. If this does break rules, please report it immediately. Posts that encourage raids on other subs or platforms is a bannable offense.

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/Markiplier) if you have any questions or concerns.*
He's the king of satire
This is one of the reasons I love Mark, he is just a dude who makes videos on games and accasionally movies. I didn't even know what his political opinions were until now. You'd be able to find them if you went out of your way, but he doesn't include them in his broader content. That's how you can tell he is just a decent bloke that's funny and happened to hit it big.
Thank god he can’t drink anymore…
Somebody needs to teach him trigger discipline though
You Don't Need to Look Both Ways When You Got SWAAAG!
The meme would be better with a picture of Alec Baldwin
That's Mark for ya
Ah, he's just trying to keep Warfstache from shooting him.
WHY, IS YOUR HAIR, NOT RED!!!
I trust Mark with a gun... but not with two guns tho
Listen, if you could go cowboy you will go cowboy.

Revolver gets a pass, true American showdown fashion
What, did he borrow that gun from Yosemite Sam? 😆
Gun control doesn’t mean getting rid of all guns, genius.
But that was a prop gun for a joke several years ago?
He was just trying to prove his point
We don't need to
It is only a matter of time before someone finds the box of human faces under his bed.
Is this every American right now?
[deleted]
Was that the real gun
where did he talk about this?
A-E-A-E-I

GOT THIS FEELING IN MY SOUL
Well for other people
Has mark ever said his gun beliefs?
Breaking two rules of gun safety to, love to see it.
He’s gotta have something for those mannequins
It's the shooty shooty bang bang 💥💥🔫
Jim Crow laws are racist and put people into classes.
Is it a prop gun?
SWEEEEEEET LIBERTYYYYYYY!!!!!! 🔫
L trigger discipline.
That trigger discipline hurts lmao
I thought that gun was fake
Terrible trigger discipline. You never put your finger on the trigger unless you are ready to fire. 0/10.
Range day with Wendigoon when?
Terrible trigger discipline. If you can't safely hold a firearm you don't deserve one
he holds many titles, it's amazing how doesn't get overworked 

king of fnaf
king of the squirrels
and king of satire
yeah, i think mark is fairly liberal which is perfectly fine, however, he also doesn't care about politics and tries to stay out of them which is something not everybody does because they let their ego get in the way 

that's why i love mark
I think he's made a few, no more than 10 videos solely dedicated to BIG problems, and he rarely (if ever) speaks about them in other videos
I agree with you but I will say you can sort of guess which side of the aisle he’s on if you pay attention to how he and the other guys talk on Distractible
oh god, that would be like mixing diet coke and mentos thus creating the end of humanity
Why can’t he drink anymore? I’m a relatively new Markiplier fan so I’m kinda out of the loop.
Yelled Markiplier as he was run over by a bus
Alec Baldwin has challenged you to a 1v1 on rust
do you know a alec baldwin subreddit i could find?
I just made one for you only to realise I can't comment pictures
He lost his voice so quickly after he got it back
i wouldn't wish that on my worst enemy
i will not let you pass until you say giddy up

or else you will yee your last haw
You’re gonna carry that weight, see ya space cowboy
It means that the government has background checks for anyone that attempts to buy a🔫 but they won't do it because the NRA has a lot of lobbyists paying anyone who attempts to think that is a good idea
i never said it did and stricter gun control doesn't lower crime rates, genius 

criminals will always have access to firearms no matter what

also, this is a joke so it's not that serious 🤨
The right to bare arms was instilled in the American constitution for a reason. Please do some research as to why such wise people would think this was a valuable clause. Furthermore, take Chicago for example as a gun-free zone; in 2020 769 unalived in a gun free zone. That’s almost 2 people a day! 

Pew-pew education and practice is much needed rather than restrictions.
Like, close to a decade ago, with a vastly different social and political landscape? 

(Yes)
r/woooosh
excuse me?? 😳
yes
This is every American EVER
people wouldn't get killed if the government did their job with police reform and getting criminals the help they need before they could act out and hurt people 

eitherway, it's only a meme lol
Firearms aren’t the issue, it’s the criminals who obtain them that are. A firearm is a tool whose purpose is given to it by the user, be it self defense, war, robbery, or murder.

If we didn’t have firearms then the bad guys would just find another way, not to mention the bad guys get firearms illegally anyway more often than not
apparently it's a prop so no
https://youtu.be/34rkx7DdpHY?si=Hw7UjL8fhncQKLyW
yes
He probably doesn’t like them too much, I believe he’s on the liberal side of things
nahhh, it's more than real

that's why mark is a danger to himself and society
Well I think that’s a prop, which isn’t an excuse but what I’m getting at is it might’ve been intentional 

Otherwise I wholeheartedly agree
Well Mark is just...the King lol
Misread this as "he holds many titties"
Oh I know how to solve this, he does get overworked, he talks about it like once a month lol
I imagine his stance is somewhere along the lines of “I’m an entertainer whose job is not to inform people on topics I’m not wholly educated on.”
I'm probably centrist. Liberal with some things, Republican with others, it's really dependent with me. And I'd say that's where it's best from personal experience, it really prevents you from getting into scuffles by being able to be a sort of middle ground. Unless the person you're talking to is some Redditor that doesn't understand the concept of opinions and thinks that every idea excepting their own is taking grandmas or something. 

Worst part about the internet is that it dehumanises us to just words on a screen. Much easier to insult words on a screen. People gotta look beyond it and realise it's another person.

Anyway yeah, I like Marky moo, he funny. Funny man go brrrrrr.
He gets the Asian flush so bad it can put him into shock (I’m not kidding)
I looked it up because I was curious. Apparently he had a heart attack after drinking three beers. Now he won’t drink anymore due to the risks.
Simple answer is if he drinks alcohol he dies.
take this with a grain of salt because i don’t know how reputable the source was, but i read somewhere that his body stopped producing the enzyme required to process alcohol.
Cool, I’ll bring blanks
Ur argument is invalid but I appreciate the attempt!
the average criminal isn't a criminal. it's some mentally ill poor person, living their life, when they see an opportunity, and do something stupid. 

anyone can go out and buy a rifle, then rob a bank. anyone can have a pistol they have for self defence, but their kid steals it and kills someone. anyone can have an ar-15 they go to the range with, then their house gets robbed and now some other guy has it. 

other countries have guns, they just don't let people buy military rifles at walmart. you can go hunting or the range, just use a hunting rifle and not a military one.

if little timmy hates his bullies, he isn't going to hand craft an assault rifle, but he might steal his dad's. if some crazy drunk dude wants to rob wendys, he won't build a pistol out of home depot pipes, but he might grab the pistol from his truck's built in gun safe.
Ur not very smart LMAO. Take ur own advice
True.
Yep totally agree. Look at the stabbings that happened in China. Wild. Besides we need guns so we can protect ourselves from the tyranny from our own government.
[deleted]
Most guns used in mass shootings were obtained legally, from 1982 to December 2023. https://www.statista.com/statistics/476461/mass-shootings-in-the-us-by-legality-of-shooters-weapons/
[deleted]
most people commit crimes in opportunity, most criminals are mentally ill poor people, not mafia gang members. if you have a depressed angry teen, they aren't going to build a bomb/rifle, but they might steal their dad's gun. and theres a lot of people who own guns and leave them around the house, just on a shelf or in their garage, with no locks. 

guns are made for one thing, killing things. if you want to go hunting, buy a hunting rifle, nobody needs an ar-15, but you can buy one from walmart for two week's groceries. anyone can go out and buy a machine gun, or an anti tank sniper, or an rpg, or a literal tank. and even though there are screenings to keep out criminals, anyone can just get their friend to buy it for them, or just buy the gun before becoming a criminal. 

the risk of someone just owning weapons like that far outweigh the lives lost. i don't care if people like shooting guns, play cod and get a bb gun, or use a hunting rifle instead of a military rifle.
wow, 6 years ago

  
though i agree with all the points and they are all still valid.
I wouldn’t say that, in any sense
Can't help it. I was taught all guns, even airsoft, Nerf, props, etc., should be treated like real, loaded  firearms
so basically the king from fallout new vegas?
King of everything… duh.
Short king
no no, you read that right

mark holds thousands of titties, and he gives his milk to his people who fought valiantly and earned it
amen 🙏🏽
Well said, well said
and it's kinda funny since he's half white so you THINK he wouldn't inherited that genetic trait but nope....he does
d-e-d 

ded 😵
So will he
it's invalid because you disagree with me? lol

it's not really a fact, just my opinion
I could say the same to you.
yeah, but i don't mean that as a fact, it's just what i think
I made that point about the government to some other people earlier in this thread, glad to see someone else sees that too.

I respect people who disagree, but some people disagree while seemingly not knowing what they’re talking about.
Because we’re the only nations with readily accessible firearms, you take firearms away and then it turns into more stabbings, beatings, chokings, and more. The U.S. will beat most nations in any crime rates due to our population count alone.

Also that’s like asking why a nation that promotes hardcore smoking has higher lung cancer rates vs a tobacco free nation, like obviously the place that actually allows those things are gonna have most of the results, good and bad. 

If we ban firearms then we need to ban tobacco, vapes, any type of vehicle, alcohol, rope, bleach, any sharp/bladed/pointy objects, never prescribe enough drugs to OD, and many many many MANY more things if we’re truly worried about someone’s well being, as those previously mentioned have taken many lives as well. Oh and they’re readily accessible too. Everywhere.
If someone passes a background check, you can’t read into the future to see their intent of use with the firearm. You’d be infringing on their rights to deny them just because. Firearms have taken many lives, but have saved many as well.
Your government also put y’all in concentration camps over a cold. You stay there with your laws and we will stay here with ours 👍
First paragraph:
Sounds like people need to be educated on firearm safety and how to store them properly 

Second paragraph:
Guns are made for killing, no doubt, aside from competition firearms. What they’re going to kill is not decided by the manufacturer, but rather the individual behind the trigger. They might just be killing paper targets.

A hunting rifle almost useless compared to a sidearm, AR-15, or shotgun in a self defense scenario (especially it is involves more than one bad guy in close quarters)

Not anyone can buy a machine gun (meaning automatic rifle, you have to have a very specialized licenses AND submit all your prints to the ATF AND the firearm has to be made before 1986), by Anti-Tank sniper I assume you mean the Barrett .50 Cal (which is Anti-Material, not Anti-Tank) which is stupid expensive and very impractical, please link me a case where one was used for murder. You need another extremely specific license to own explosives (especially that of an RPG), and to the VERY FEW people who do own tanks, the cannon is disabled in various ways including being filled with concrete.

Paragraph 3:
An AR-15 is not a military rifle, you’re thinking of an M4, M16, or any other platform of that type that’s capable of going fully automatic or burst. 

“Play cod or own a BB gun”. I guess people should just play Madden and not actually play football since there’s a risk to the sport. NASCAR should shutdown as the wrecks are too dangerous and they could just play the games. Police should just play Ready or Not since the real deal is violent and could possibly lead to harm of themselves or the suspect/civilians. I guarantee you the bad guys won’t opt out of the real thing to play GTA. Also, you can easily lose an eye to a BB gun, guess we should lose those too.

You don’t have to own firearms, you don’t have to live near people who do. But you don’t get to tell others what they can and cannot own, especially when most of them are good people who don’t have ill intent.
well yeah, i don't agree with all of them but i understand where's he coming from, his heart is definitely in the right place
I agree, I was raised the same way
Yes
He’s the ruler of everything! (Ahh…)
Somewhere in the middle is where most people are, but the majority of them don't express their views, so they are the quiet majority who don't really care about politics because it's either too confusing or argumentative. 

Personally I'd rather have a cup of tea than talk about political topics.
Thank you kind sir/madam
Press “X” to doubt
Bc ur wrong <3 hope that helps
Cool. Maybe the next logical step is you need better screening and access and funding to mental health faculties then? Sure, guns are cool and fun to shoot. But Americans need to weigh the cost of having them as accessible as you do. If someone says this is sustainable I wish they have the fullest extent of the consequences for their actions.
hell yes 😎
He’s the ruler of everything in the end
and sometimes when the middle does speak out, they get attacked by both the left AND right

it's honestly pretty sad

i just want peace, less government interference, and no taxes 

is that too much to ask? apparently so
uh huh, ok, and you think you're right?
I agree better screening and access/funding to mental health facilities would be a great start. Especially since our nation sends millions if not billions to support foreign wars we have no part of, it’s not like we can’t afford it. 

We do weigh the cost of having them this accessible, it deters our corrupt government from doing something like a complete takeover and allows good people to defend themselves from bad people who would likely have firearms anyways

Also that last part makes you sound like you hope whoever agrees with the 2nd amendment would die just because they support the ownership of firearms, unless I misunderstood, which is kinda harsh if you ask me
I really don’t see what screening is gonna do, people can always lie. And when you start to introduce stuff where it’s determined by someone’s opinion if someone can have guns then it’s gonna be used to make sure minority can’t have guns, and the entire reason I have guns is because I am a minority.
Do you like how I dance?
I just want to legalise nuclear weapons, make taxes 100%, and then murder everybody, is that so much to ask?
The fact that u think ur doing something amazes me LMAO
I’ve got zirconium pants!
hmmmmm.......

nope

lmao
based
not really doing anything important but alright, please go wild with your imagination
Consequential enough to slip you into a trance
absolutely lol
LMAO ur most definitely not
Do you like how I walk? Do you like how I talk?
yeah, i only asked you a simple question out of pure curiosity but i guess your itty bitty brain can't process that due to your internet ego and ignorance
Trigger warning: Reasons why I play this game
My favorite badges earned after 1 year of jungle main.
Ugh, you're the reason people should ward jungle entrances n stuff
Any advice for us that aren’t good at doing this?
Im a ww player. Make my day.
Kindred main?
I just love that you can display this to the enemy and fuck with their mental by just existing lol
Come into my jungle as Rammus. Make my day. I’ll hit W until my homies show up. 

If they don’t show up, then I’ll alt+f4 back into anime tentacles.
If I posted mine I’d actually be worried for my irl safety
I usually try to have a truce with the enemy jungler, I don't take their camps, they don't take mine. I know what we go through at the hands of our laners. Let's make them suffer together.

And here you are, straight up declaring war out here.
What do the far left (8) and far right (13) mean??
Shaco player detected
Back when smiting camps gave mini buffs, so everyone smited krugs or gromp lvl 1, i basically onetricked shaco with leashless buff start into immediate invade. Get to enemy buff by the time theyre on it, q over wall, get guaranteed steals plus either fb or forced flash about 90% of the time. Then recall, kill your second buff, invade again. I think i was at 6 people rage quittimh by lvl 3 that season with a dozen or so rage quits by end of game. Invade playstyle is super fun.
bruh im not even in game and im triggered af. you are a rat bastard. I mean that in the most endearing way. fr
If I find out you're playing Shaco I'm jumping you watch the fuck out
No way they made the triple quadrant clear a token that rly cool
That third badge is crazy lol, it must be an utter stomp for that to happen
I am Challenger #39 on the Most Dangerous Game lol.
[wipe tear]

My bro...  so proud of you :)
LMAO I FEEL YOU, my top ones are objectives steals, farming enemy camps, and first bloods
My favorites as well, I used to do an invade each game w my brother and his gf
I don't hate it. I want to become it.
You are the reason thwy are nerfing jg constantly altho it being bad in the first place
I use Amumu to get these badges. It's easier to steal the enemy camps with him.
"I 3-camp vertical invade cheese every game with cringe champs in low elo"

ITT: Woah how u do this magic?
I bwt he plays shaco
My favorite token is "Farm Champs not camps" That is why I play this game lol. Also udyr main, so getting those early kills and snowballing is *kisses fingers* chef's kiss.
u are a menace
A lot of good stuff here, this jg fks lol. I have a different plan, but similar ranking on these badges, and a lot goes into it that you wouldn't imagine.

When looking at my own badges, I noticed the number rankings.  So those are for everyone in NA?  Like, for example, you're Challenger #280, so only 279 people have 3-buffed more than you this season?  Is that how it works?
Do you have the steal 2 epic monsters in one game on challenger tho?
As a Viego main. You’re the reason I put deep wards in early
not me running into enemy jungle aimlessly or smiting enemy raptors as ivern to take camps to try get the seasonal challenge done (im not a jg main)
Last time I invaded the enemy jungle, I killed a low hp ADC who walked into the bush I was running into.
Fellow invader I love it. 

I've spammed kindred and Im 70 something in tree buffed challenge
Poacher's dirk enjoyer
Oh bro that's awesome to see!! I'm ranked 156 for three buffed on EU West so we competing somewhat
I'm an idiot I read that as 3 of the first 4 buff champs. Who are the buff champs?? And they have to be the first buff champs? Sett Braum and???
Who are your mains so I know who to ban
I mean you are legit exposing yourself as a serial invader before you do it. Its their own fault. If I was vs you I'd camp my own jg with my team and try to farm you
Let me guess, Shaco?
I hate players like you because I'm never able to do it. T_T
so your the guy that i always go against
Warwick mains foaming at the mouth
Every time I try getting into jungling, 

there's always some fool pulling this.

It makes me slam my keyboard and hiss,

"I'm new ya see, 

can't expect much from me"

I leave it for another day,

"No thank you, I don't jungle" I say
Bet you are either a kindred of Nida main
You truly are a predator
Can't have shit in summoner's rift
I play the exact same way, my its my jungle now is at challenger, and it really gets hard playing like that at higher elos
Please tell me your title is Jungle Diff just for the extra salt in the wound
You should see my stats just from playing shaco, and that’s only about 6 months 😭
You are the reason why im scared everytime i play nunu or maokai into junglers like rengar and kindred
Ward ya reds, ward ya gromps, cause they taking everything right here!
and then the kayn just Es through the dragon pit and clears your jungle
go for strong early game invading champs like graves kindred jarvan and noct works well right now too depending on the matchup. Almost any champ with dueling potential can do it even Warwick or vi. 

You want to start off on red buff no matter what side you get because red is the buff that is stronger when dueling or fighting. You do a 3 camp into invade when you know the enemy jungler is doing a traditional full clear to topside. I like it best from bot side red start, as it allows me to take my red with a leash then quickly rotate to krugs and raptors. After those three camps you just cut across into your blue side and walk through river into the enemy red side without getting spotted from the enemy jungler who is probably doing their raptors as you try to sneak by hugging that left wall. Unless they are a super fast clearring champion like hecarim or karthus you will meet them at red as they start it. Most low elo even up to plat and emerald won’t check that bush at thier red right away. I usually wait and let them take damage until they decide to walk in bush to check or the buff gets low enough to just walk at them and kill them. You don’t want to attack the buff at all unless you are ready for an instant smite. If you attack the buff the agro will be placed on you and you will take damage from the red monster which can actually dictate the way a duel turns out. Let them continue to take agro from the buff and just attack the enemy jungler. I usually wait until 800 - 900 hp on the red buff to start walking at the enemy jungler. 

After getting the kill and taking the buff you can instantly recall to get your powerspike. When you come back go to clearing your blue side into a bot side clear as your lvl 2 raptors will respawn right after wolves are done on that rotation. Clear to krugs and get lvl 5 into a bot gank or mid gank or dragon because the enemy jungler will be too busy trying to catch-up by doing a second clear towards topside. Free LP if this early game plan works.
It’s the champs you pick and knowing when you can duel.
Play cringe champs that disregard usual jungle tempo and clearing that 99% of junglers have to adhere to. (Graves nid kindred)

Edit: XD nice downvotes. This is literally true. Guy posted a bronze wall of text describing how he 3-camps into vertical invade like it's rocket science and not just cheese.
Play the champs that do this
You are actually the only champ I ever consider not invading same with briar or noct their dual is too powerful.
I usually just ward the ww to see if it's safe and then hide in his brush and smite it over the wall, cause he clears as fast or faster than me.

I then have to run as fast as possible to make sure I live lmao
I feel ok invading WW with Lillia or Kindred.
No way… 
Yes, graves as well.
I see an opponent flexing one of these emblems, I instantly start opposite sight and spam ping my team to ward (and they obviously dont).
I never display any emblems that show useful info

My lvl1 fiesta is GM... I'd never show it lol
Rammus is generally on the ez pickins list at level 3, sorry bud.
I dare you.
Your position in the current tier and the set mark for next tier. So after 13 I go to grandmaster tier and I get a ranked score for that tier on the badge
The thresholds for each token rank I think

Also happy cake day
Lol I once had a nidalee rage at me and asked straight up “WHY ARE YOU STILL IN MY JG!!?” As she was lvl 2 and I was stealing yet another camp. One of my most memorable moments I still cherish.
*Bruh im not even in*

*Game and im triggered af. you*

*Are a rat bastard*

\- Spirited\_Dish8471

---

^(I detect haikus. And sometimes, successfully.) ^[Learn&#32;more&#32;about&#32;me.](https://www.reddit.com/r/haikusbot/)

^(Opt out of replies: "haikusbot opt out" | Delete my comment: "haikusbot delete")
It’s a rare one to get. Every lane has to have complete dominating priority so I don’t constantly get collapsed on for constantly being in their jungle.
Nice. What champs do you use? I want to try out a more aggressive play style like this.
Feel so good to have a mid laner take his prio and roam for the kill too
he said graves kindred in comments... cringe even more that a shaco main
Old Udyr invading me while I'm ww, and pulling that sht off at level 2, infuriating lol.
Yes, only 279 players have done it more. it might be per season or lifetime idk. Started this account fresh at start of season 13.
Taric
It’s sólo q, almost nobody is warding your jungle for you. I’ve asked. It’s really rare. But honestly simple wards really will counter me hard.
Idk why but I literally can’t outplay an instant flash fear  from a ww. And I don’t know if it’s a me problem lol. Hesitant ww’s who let themselves get kited are easy pickings.
Pro tip? Take red before raptors if you are pathing top or take blue before wolves on other side. I get there late, lose tempo and you lose nothing. It’s not hard to counter if you know it’s coming. Even doing a double buff into gromp and then pathing bot side will potentially throw off the invading jungler if they don’t realize your raptors/krugs would still be up. Warding pixel brush 1:10 would also spot me coming in just in time as well. Protect your buffs when against any of those invading jungler champs. Just spreading public awareness with this post lol.
lol is that a "rapist in lincoln park" reference? "hide yall kids, hide yall wives, hide yo husbands too cause they rapin errbody out here!"
This was so in depth. I appreciate you!! Trying to master jungle to climb so info like this really helps
Would it be possible to do as Udyr? And if yes, which enemy junglers are to invade and which arebto avoid?
this sounds so snowbally and oppresive. You are prbably 550 gold up by the time drag is done at around what 5:45 or 6:00? second clear into drag on spawn? you could do one more blue side clear into recall on another powerspike and head straight for rift securing that too on spawn, it depends if you track enemy jg after drag well enough.
So how do I counter a counter jungler
How do you approach this if you’re on red side?
I wouldn't really call it free LP. So many people that do this are Elo inflated cheesers, varitable one pump chumps. They will do this then expect you to ragequit. If you keep your cool you can return to your second full clear and grape them in game.
What if the enemy jungler starts red?
Think this would work with Rek? Although she does have quite slow clears and low mobility now
Wow. Screenshot this.
What about a rengar? Cause they’re 100% “checking” that red buff lol
Gank briar level 1 if you see their bot lane not leashing her(which most briars do solo since she starts on raptors), she deals minimum damage level 1 and without her q and e she is going to mindlessly run at you like a zombie. Usually briar is scared mostly for any sort of invade because until level 3, dhe can not function at all. Hell if you pursuade your bot and mid to invade with ya then chances are you are either getting a kill or her camps bc  they are essentially a player down
Honestly you can fuck up Briar pretty hard if you catch her doing camps, her W most likely will go on CD and she can't duel anymore
Lol vi main here, you are banned in all my games
Like I said. Someone asked how to do this, I said, play cringe champions that can disregard normal jungle tempo that other players have to adhere to, and I get -13 downvotes when its actually true.

What elo are you even? This is not impressive, this is just cheesy low-level gameplay that tries to take advantage of low elo junglers, playing normal junglers, who don't know how to react to ELO inflated players, like you, making off-tempo decisions that are normally never made.
Bro would you mind giving me some tips on how to get good at kindred?
I suck massive ass with her, I heard she's quite hard to play.
Fyi I just got back to league after years of not playing it.
Especially when he used e on red for his clear not thinking there is someone waiting in bush. It’s a 3 or 4 tap and he’s gone.
Remind me later today and I’ll post it. My playstyle is the most rage inducing for laners 💀
Thanks!
Good bot
Oh yeah, shit was busted 🤣
Thanks for the tip haha. I will try it out next time i am up against an invading jungler (hopefully never🤞). And thank you for spreading awareness because I have actually really wondered what I do against it.
sherlock over here yall
Udyr can do it well enough unless the enemy has gap close then you might not get the kill but you can probably bully the enemy off of the buff. Almost no champion in the game is OP enough to just win any duel vs any champ regardless of situation. So even if you counter a champ you still have to play it right in order to pull off a kill and steal, and also vice versa. So it’s important to follow the steps like not take agro and so on. As long as you don’t take agro in most instances almost any champ can win a duel. Exceptions are things like Warwick who has a heal and fear, nocturne with spell shield and fear, but even then as long as they use those abilities on the red you should have a green light. Hope that helps.
Some champs are level 4 ones.

Udyr is one of them.

He wants E for battling.
You get E level 4

If you don't you sacrifice your clear by alot.

Never sacrifice your clear as udyr 

Q or R -> R or Q -> W -> E
Yeah, I go for rift on spawn and I can bet even if jg spots it by this point in the game I have had more efficient buys and power spikes so it should be safe for taking with competent laners.
Take your camps in confusing ways or counter jungle my jungle while I’m counter jungling yours. Just take my blue while I take yours. Basically just split the map vertically and just play for bot side. I won’t have any camps bot so I might never gank bot lol.
Ward jungle entrances or river, depending on whether they have a dash that can cross walls. Use vision and map to track them so you know where they are. If you are playing a farming champ (say Shyvana) and they are strong invader (Graves, Lee) you may want to clear from top to bot. 

If you're playing a stronger champ you could try and collapse on them for a kill, counter jungle them or gank while you know they are on your camps. The biggest counter to invades is map awareness and macro.
I will start red and i have a few options
1. I can go to raptors second and krugs 3rd for a lvl 3 gank top into invade on their blue with my top laner having prio after the gank 
2. I can do krugs second and raptors 3rd for a mid gank and into a possible invade if the gank is fast enough.
3. I can go straight to their blue after three camping and ward the blue over wall and wait for enemy to start it using blast cone for a “SURPRISE MUFUKA!”
Every game I walk to topside pixel brush to guard my blue and try to scout out the enemy jungler to see if they will start red. If they start red you can start your red with a leash and invade their blue and gromp for level 3 before the enemy jungler even knows you’re doing it. Level 3 gank bot into normal krugs to topside clear. By the time the enemy jungler realizes his blue and gromp are gone and walks all the way to your blue you will have cleared all the way to at least wolves. You can ward your blue and just finish your clear. He will be level 3 due to losing camps and you should hit level four after wolves into protecting your blue from a possible retaliation invade.

Otherwise you can just do a normal 3 camp into invade just like if you were starting topside red.

Edit: I forgot to mention he will absolutely 100% have smite from not smiting his blue or gromp. So if you don’t have it up just use your level advantage to bully him first.
Very rare for a low elo rengar to properly stay healthy in a full clear. I will usually bet they stay low hp enough for a kill. I have been wrong about one or two rengars though and paid the price.
Rengar himself should be looking for invades at 3. Very rare that even in high elo I do a fullclear into the majority of matchups, there’s very few champs I will not invade & it’s cringe shit like udyr/xin that barely gets played anyway
90% of the time we start on red buff lvl 1. If we start on blue then as you mentioned we're 100% going to be in the bush with the red buff cause we kite the red into the bush to get our passive stack and also we can e the Krugs over the wall to jump on em from that bush after clearing red. There are a good amount of champs that'll just run Rengar down in his own jungle if he doesn't have all his abilities ready.
Why? Vi shits on kindred. At least he did when I was a kindred main. One of the only champs I wouldn’t invade.
Just play her a lot. She is one of those champs that just takes some time to get used to autoing and spacing correctly. You have to be confident in your kiting ability to play her. Also the fact that she is very auto attack based but has a few spells she has to weave in at good timings for max efficiency. There is also the mechanic where you have to show the enemy you are about to go hunt for them 15 seconds early. So yeah she’s not an easy champ. If you are not confident in your ability to early game invade/duel with her then you can just scale with her as she is one of the best scaling champs.
hey there ;)
Thank you, vintage_appellation, for voting on haikusbot.

This bot wants to find the best and worst bots on Reddit. [You can view results here](https://botrank.pastimes.eu/).

***

^(Even if I don't reply to your comment, I'm still listening for votes. Check the webpage to see if your vote registered!)
You think Hec could pull this off consistently?
What about sacrificing W for early E and taking hp pot at start?
So you would hold trinket until ready to invade rather than securing info by dropping ward on blue around 1:10 mark? I’m keen to try this out as I have been playing graves more religiously this patch and need to push the invade play style  more
Graves is tough cause of the armour but I’m 75% confident on the ability to merc an invading kindred there
Entirely depends on if they efficiently use empowered W for raptors, I can leashless from blue > gromp > wolves into raptors and be full HP without using a potion by getting off 2 emp Ws on raptors with elec instead of fleet, with fleet even new rengar players can do a relatively healthy clear. You’re also likely to get level 3d yourself by any Rengar that has a clue how they should be playing their champ unless you’ve picked udyr/xin against them
I feel like most Jgl champs clear with full HP nowadays. Depends on what runes Rengar takes too but if he has fleet footwork which is pretty common and my rune of choice for him (especially in difficult matchups where I can't fight early) then he's going to be full health without a potion even. Now I clear fairly decently on Rengar cause he's my most played champ but I am what is widely considered low/mid ELO (gold 1 and I say mid ELO cause the last 3 of my 7 total ranked matches this season had emerald players in the match for some reason). So I wouldn't really count on Rengar being low HP during his clear but would rather say invading him at his blue/gromp  if you're playing on red side is a fairly safe play if you're playing a champ with a strong early or blatantly counters him (Bel'veth or Yi just run him down without counterplay)
Oh for sure, unless i see top is giga gankable then I’m clearing red into top (it’s nearly every game in low elo top laners can’t stop throwing themselves at each other)
It depends on if you wait for her to q the red before all in. Mid game she may screw you if she just all in presses r and if she sticks to you during and after ult.
oh almost forgot. [Here you go](https://imgur.com/a/ZmswizR).

&#x200B;

Basically my playstyle is to non stop gank. I make it my mission to not let the enemy laners breath. I will usually do red into ganks+invade or Blue gromp into ganks+invade. The ganks are really easy lv 1-5 and enemy jungler is quite low usually before first clear. I will take risks by going the long way around the map to avoid vision just to keep kill tempo. Usually by the time enemy jungler has cleared to second buff I have 2 kills theyre low enough to invade,  steal red and kill them. I go down in exp almost every game but it doesnt matter. If i have items I can pretty much oneshot tanks that are 3-4 levels up. Jungle catch up exp means I can just do a clear and be same level while down as much as 60 cs. Also ganking first and giving lanes advantage can easily win the game in first 2 minutes.

&#x200B;

If I start red I will walk straight to bot and instantly gank(need support to have cc and ignite) for a free kill. Then if I rush to blast cone to wolves camp the enemy jungler is still on it and low. Ill smite steal the wolves to deny lv 3 and kill them. In the time they have done 2 camps I have done 2 camps, killed their bot lane and invaded to kill them so they are out of tempo and behind preventing them from ganking as much early. Once enemy jungler is behind in exp its very hard to gank unless they have gold for damage items. A lv 4 lee sin with no gold cant really walk into a lane with a lv 6 mord, renekton etc.

Obviously it can go wrong spectacularly but its feast or famine and more often than not its feast. I have a clip actually which I might edit and add to this.

Edit: I added a video example of the pathing.
For him it’s more benificial to clear a full clear by 3:00 and immediately go to enemy gromp and smite it away  denying their level 4 and all inning from there if possible. Otherwise get out secure both scuttles and repeat clear into invade gromp/wolves.
In my experience, hecarim is a great champ for 1v1s later in the game, but most of his strength in early game is his mobility. Hard to catch=hard to kill. He snowballs really hard, but he has very little cc that helps in a 1v1 at level 3. His E is great for ganking but is only really good 1v1 if it can interrupt an ability. 

You can definitely steal red, but getting the kill is hard if the opponent is competent with their champ’s clear. That said, screwing with your opponent’s game plan early on can be almost as good as a kill imo

Kindly take this with a grain of salt. I do not play hecarim much. My knowledge comes from watching my friend main hecarim in his climb
It will pay off sometimes and sometimes not. The games it doesnt will hurt you alot as udyr.

Idk how you play udyr but how I get that champion is to increase your lead by solid pathing & invading dep on enemy jungler. 

Taking high % ganks & control objectives

The type of champions (imo) that can indulge in these cheese strats is kindred shaco rengar etc
Yeah you can tell by looking at bot lane when they walk up to see if they leashed for the enemy jungler or not. Saving that ward is supper beneficial for the invade to secure vision of them starting the buff and how much damage they are taking from the buff so you know when to go in. I have tried invading them at their wolves by warding wolves 1:10 to see them start it but it usually works better if I wait to let them start blue first.
yeah first blood is almost always topside

especially if there is a ghost ignite darius

I mean, if a darius has ghost ignite his intention is pretty obvious check your bushes before walking up the lane
Uhh yeah point and click cc kind of wrecks adc’s that are caught out. If the vi player has any brain cells you shouldn’t be able to invade at all unless you’re way ahead.
Damnn that shit nasty(saw your video)
Absolutely brutal and I love it.  Thanks for sharing you scumbag XD.

What champs you play other than Mantheon for this?
yeah being that deep in their jungle if something goes wrong is a death sentence. blue and gromp have safer exit strategies.
If you are playing someone who can gank instantly lv 2 you might still make the timing for wolves invade
100% Pantheon OTP. He does everything and he does it with finesse.
I think pantheon rework was the fastest mastery 7 I've had. 

5 S grades in a row no question.  I like a good rift beat down but those just didn't feel fair.
Yeah it was really good overall but at first it *felt* too slow. The e being too slow while walking backwards felt crap and the late game was awful without the armour pen. He’s now in a perfect state imo. Next season I’ll have to test it all again with new items since my current builds won’t exist T.T 

When the rework happened people were upset about q becoming a skill shot but it was SOOOOO wide and short that it was impossible to miss In melee
Can someone explain why I’m not winning every game? Genuinely confused.
https://preview.redd.it/17avuuy1znxd1.jpg?width=4160&format=pjpg&auto=webp&s=14f00727e5121d81c1c7c2e7d65c4da25b1de4f4

Can someone explain why I’m not winning every game? I mean, here’s the proof I’m always the best player on my team every single game. But somehow, I keep losing. Is there some secret I’m missing to carrying every match, or am I just cursed with teammates who can’t keep up and losersQ is real?
I got this. 

It seems like you're playing mid earthquake. That means it's hard to click on your jungle camps efficiently. 

Losing 5-10 seconds a clear = 20% win rate.
You should try focus on playing one or two champs. I see you have played at least 8 different champs in the last 4 games so you should pick your favourite 2 and play with them only. If the champ gets banned or picked just pick a random champ you never played and run it/joke around, your teammates will understand if your explain to them after you load into the rift. Good luck and if you keep doing these things you should climb over time
What i see after the 10th beer in 5 Games, already not noticing that i am autofilled supp
Thanks for this post, I'm sick of pp complaining in this sub. Maybe we need to emigrate to other /r.
Having most kills and gold and dmg and all that means nothing if you can’t kill the nexus with it
I am quite sure yasuo jungle is not really a thing...
focus on destroying the enemy Nexus.
Usually, when I listen to heavy metal, I can't stop banging my head, and the game ends up looking like the picture above.

Try lowering the volume and muting all players, that always seems to work.
Love u bro
its correlated to employment
You clearly didn't hack riots systems and get blessed with lp like the rest of us. I suggest just starting 30 new accounts until you find one that was blessed and put in diamond so you can play in your true elo
Bro. Your stuck in the losing queue
You have to destroy the opponents nexus before they can destroy yours

Hope this helps 😁👍
You should stop using smite. Its bait. Use teleport and ghost instead to get to your camps quicker.
screen looks a little blurry, once you fix that you should win more i think (not a jungle main)
for me it was realising you can’t rely on your teammates to end, you also need to join in and end. so if your doing amazing early game and mid game, you need to learn how to group with teammates and take towers
Ur teammatss r like the ppl on the road driving with u.
Potential idiots with a case of "one wrong move and ill fk u up".

Therefore...
Play like a tryndamere and mute all and aim for the nexus.
Whatevers in ur way u gotta mow them down.

Also, enemy jg camps r all urs.
Track them, take them.
Sometimes what i do.. Is...

Chickens > red.
Then enemy shows on map, i beeline tk their buff. Take itz then take their life.
Then take their krugs or chickens, gank mid. Show that im goin to my red... Then they go there and oops, im nof there.
Now im at their blues idea taking theie gromp that respawned.

Niw im ganking their top/bot.

Mindgames.
Im currently emerald 2.
Was gold last season, with 200 games hardstuck.
Now im emerald 2 with a 64% wr.
Buncha losers griefing and afking in my games pulling down my wr.

But i win those games in the sense that theyre banned from ranked games and onlyway to get unbanned is to be forced to play quickplay/draft and WIN 3 of those.

Funny rhing is... Lots of times ppl play that with thwir friends. Like 4 man parties. So theyre paired up with flexed mmr.
I got banned once and had to play like 20 unranked games. Cus my teammates were spread. Was against 2 masters and 3 iron.
My team was 3 golds and 1 plat + me.
This happened for like 20 games lol.

The masters hard carried cus they just kept spawn killing my teammates and all theyd do is rage and afk. Cus theyre in a "premade" and even if someine reports them, they... Dont get punished.
Ahahahahahahaa. Ive learned my. Lesson... Not to say the word "dildo". Literally, said "my adc kalista playing with his dildo more than his keyboard". Bro couldn't shuffle even if the world depended on it.
I get that this is a joke post but still let's answer this one as if it isn't.

LoL is a team based game. Having the highest kills, least deaths, most gold etc are terrible metrics or even proving the exact opposite.

If you only think about yourself and can't translate your skills and knowledge into enabling your team, you're still an entry level player and will lose the match.
Earthquake being a 100 damage move certainly makes it hard to recover if you are not playing a flying type jungler.

Also if it happens often, don't play Rek'sai as the double damage is rough.
Brother is getting perma ganked by Rammus.
Everyone knows if your champ gets picked / banned you have to run yuumi jungle
Fr, real Yasuo meta is the 0/10 power spike, trying to bypass it with jungle camp doesn’t work.
Let’s not
And the earthquake spell will do 3.5x damage to your turrets, which would make it a negative elixir trade
Never ask a jungler:

1. Why do they play the most hated and blame focused role in the game.
2. Why they have 100% winrate on soraka with 1 game.

They probably won't know the answer either.
and dont elaborate.  
You type you get banned.
Yeah last time I saw yasuo jung semi commonly was 2016 or 17 that season was crazy for jungles from memory people ran garen and Ashe jungle that season and we had the 2 jungle meta weirdness
it was a joke man
PSA: please do not write-in Mark on your ballots!
I work in my county elections department (extra help, but I still know how ballots work) and if you write in a candidate that IS NOT registered, your vote WILL NOT COUNT.

I saw some comments recently and couldn't tell if they were satirical or not, but it seems like people are actually intending on voting for Mark in November. Please do not do this, it is literally throwing your vote away because he's not a registered candidate.

Also, you know what it would mean if Mark actually ran for president? It means he would have to deal with very heavy and stressful topics. You thought he was busy when making his movie? You could say goodbye to regular uploads for 4-8 years.

As always, Mark makes his own choices. If he decides to run for office, that's another story. So I better not see any ballots that say "Markiplier" unless you're willing to waste your vote on a joke. Good day.
Hello! Thanks for posting. This is a reminder about the rules. Make sure the post is appropriate and not to delegate or go against Reddit policy or r/Markiplier Rules. If this does break rules, please report it immediately. Posts that encourage raids on other subs or platforms is a bannable offense.

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/Markiplier) if you have any questions or concerns.*
Wouldn't voting "Markiplier" be a waste anyway since that's not his legal name?
YES! i wish i could like this a hundred times! i believe his birthday message was satire, but i'm afraid some do not get that. 

and for real, this election is one of the most important ones...especially for African Americans and Women. 

Thanks for this PSA! it was needed. Peace.
Remember: people who want to vote for Trump won't vote someone else as a joke.
More importantly, mark probably shouldn’t be president. Love the man but I just don’t see it realistically, and I’m inclined to think he would agree
I fully agree with this. Even if Mark did register as a candidate, it'd be pointless to vote for him if he was a third-party candidate because the system is rigged in favor of our two main political parties.

If he ever runs for president officially as a democrat , I'd vote for him. In that situation, he'd be my ideal candidate, on account of being younger than any other candidate, and more progressive. But I don't think he'd do that, because he always talks about how much he loves making stuff, like his Adventures with Markiplier videos, Unus Annus, the momiplier documentary, and the upcoming Iron Lung movie. Running for president would mean 4-8 years where he couldn't work on any projects like that.
As someone that worked elections, they are very VERY particular about what counts for a vote.
We had to discard a vote because they scribbled out other candidates and circled the one they wanted (which would have been fine) but then they added writing to it (sentence that was bashing a different candidate) and we weren't able to accept it as a vote
Adding a different name that isn't listed, will automatically count as a discard.
Just fill in the bubble of who you want to vote for clearly, that's it's that's all.
I understand wanting to be haha for the joke, and if you are alright with your vote being thrown away, then you do you.
But the people that actually count the votes afterwards have to follow very specific rules for what counts as a proper vote lol
Also can we please take this election seriously? Like is Biden the best? No. But he's a hell of a lot better than Trump. Like look at Project 2025.
I know this gets brought up a bunch, but I’m seriously still confused on how our votes matter with something like the electoral college process.

Also screw the two party system. 

Also why don’t we have ranked choice voting? 

 😕
Remember, a non-vote, be it a fake vote or not voting at all, is as good as voting for the person you *don't* want in office!
This election is far too important for anyone to be messing around. 

Do we love Mark? Of course. 

Would he make a good leader? We already know he would. 

Would he want us to throw away votes during one of the most crucial elections our democracy has ever had? **ABSOLUTELY NOT.** 

I’m not gonna endorse a candidate here (though one can easily find my affiliation by going through my comment history). But engaging in democracy is how we make ourselves heard. Don’t throw that away — even on someone as amazing as Mark.
I don’t think Mark would enjoy being president anyway. Seems like he would find it miserable
If someone is old enough to vote and genuinely thinks they can elect someone who isn't running by writing in their name, then they're too dangerously stupid to have voting in an important election anyway and you should just let them do their thing.
Yes, *thats* why you shouldn’t waste a vote this year.
YES YES YES THANK YOU, I get the joke is funny and what not and we’re all stressed asf about the election, but I’ve seen too many people that seem way too serious about voting for Mark (I’m hoping they aren’t serious ofc but you never know)
I appreciate you starting this discussion!  If you are voting, please do your research and vote for the candidate for you!  Consider visiting https://www.votelikeabeast.com/ (hosted by GMM) for a whole bunch of information about candidates and the upcoming election!
I’ve seen the posts about him becoming president and really really really hope ppl are just kidding lol. But I appreciate you making this post just in case they are not because ya never know with some of his fan base lol.
It'd be basically like everyone during 2016 voting for Harambe instead of Trump or Hillary. Your vote gets thrown away, and it doesn't count.
Please vote for real, unless youre gonna vote trump then go ahead and vote for markiplier
Mark wouldn't want the job even if he won. Please don't waste your vote, even if this election feels like a joke in itself.
> it is literally throwing your vote away

So is voting third-party, FYI
So off topic but are spoiled ballots not counted in the USA? Some countries do count them as a way to see the population who don’t support any party
I hope people are joking
I refuse to believe anyone old enough to vote would seriously consider doing this…it’s crazy that you even have to warn folks
I mean I live in california so my vote already doesn't matter lol
Wait a minute.  Only registered candidates can be written in?  But wouldn’t registered candidates already be on the ballot?
I will definitely not be wasting my vote on Markiplier this election, however it still feels like a joke no matter who I vote for…
You can just register him to make the votes count. I registered Kanye West since he never got around to it. 
Lets be real here, people who would write a youtuber in on a ballot weren't gonna be voting either way...
You think people who want to do this are people who care about their vote?
Um, I dont think people voting for markiplier have any intention of casting a genuine vote so idk who you are talking to here lol
Don’t worry, most of us were joking. Although, I was accused of being a fascist and a trump supporter for joking. Politics aren’t even safe satirically 😅
Isn't that the point though?
If people actually did this, they would be idiots.
I understand what you're saying OP. But on the other hand....
MARK FOR PRESIDENT!!!!!!!!!
I wish I could upvote this a thousand times. This election is somehow even crazier than 2020's, and I can't bear to see so many people saying they're going to write Mark's (or anyone else's) name in on their ballot - jokes or not. Please for the love of whatever you believe in, do not fucking write anyone else's name in on your ballot. This isn't a fucking game. They're both awful choices, I can't stand either one of them, but I'd rather deal with another four years of Biden than Trump.
Agreed. I know people are probably joking, but still, waste of a ballot, ya know?
I was going to think most people weren't going to do that, but at the same time, I remember people who unironically wrote "Harambe" on their ballots. The system's stupid af, and I've lost faith in quite a lot of folks. I liked it better knowing people didn't do much before voting. Knowing people are deliberate with throwing their votes away is somehow a terrible revelation to have.

That said, yeah, don't vote for Mark Fischbach or Markiplier for president. I'd rather he *not* be associated with the war criminal position.
Yeah, let’s not make this the reason America collapses in on itself.
Please vote for the Party that Mark would approve of!
In UK we just tick a box, it must be so much hassle to go through all the names
The fact this has become anything more than a joke is concerning
Oh god please for the sake of so many people’s freedoms and rights to do what they want with their lives please don’t add Mark on your ballots!
>So I better not see any ballots that say "Markiplier" unless you're willing to waste your vote on a joke.

Well, to be fair I'll be wasting my vote on a joke no matter who I vote for, at this point. Whether the candidate themself is a joke or that the joke is thinking a  non-major party could actually finally win for once.

But yes, writing in Markiplier is a bad idea.
I'm not an American citizen, but if i were and considering today's state of election, voting for Mark as a president is less wasteful than any other candidate that we can have. 
voting for Mark is more beneficial
Because it means you would rather wait for someone who actually has good morals, and why wait when you can make america great by yourself starting with your family, then your community and then your country, might as well vote for Mark while your doing it.
THEY want to run HIM for president LOL
Obviously they'd vote for mark Edward fischbach not markiplier
I am definitely going to vote Mark in the 2024 ballot

I will not be eligible to vote in the 2024 election, but I’m committing election fraud just cus Mark is worth it
I think the point is that they are throwing it away on purpose.  If I go to a ballot, and there is no one running I agree with for that position, I'm not going to vote "the lesser of two evils" I'm not going to give either of them a vote that could sway it one way or the other, and continue voting the rest of my picks.
We cannot afford go waste a single vote on a joke when we have a certain orange joke running for president again... he will end us pun intended
We need to vote Biden, even if you don't like him wholly, it's a race to stop Project 2025.
Reminded me of sticking my early voting ballot. I'll most likely be trucking by Nov 2nd
Thought of this as a funny “haha” while showering yesterday. Sorry for bringing it into reality everyone.
Sorry but putting a write in that does not matter is not a thrown away vote.  It is a vote not to vote because some polling locations do not allow you to leave a candidate blank.
Side note, I'm tired of every presidential election being "the most important election in history".

I will take two boring candidates that actually care about the country, instead of their corporate donors.
God are people actually voting this innocent guy for president because they want to be quirky 😭 we’re cooked
Have you seen our official jokes for candidates?
Honestly? That’s the point. I don’t care to vote in this election (assuming it’s Trump vs. Biden - if Biden ends up dropping, maybe I’ll vote for whoever replaces him.) 

I don’t like either of them at all, and if my vote matters, then I’m not going to just “settle” again for something I don’t believe in. I know it’s minor - but view it as a form of protest. Both of the candidates are terrible in my eyes, therefore I will not be voting for either of them. I’m writing in “Mark Fishback” because it’s funny, stupid, and it’ll make my friends laugh. Also because the candidates suck. Whether it counts or not doesn’t matter to me.
Makes total sense especially since they presidential candidate has to be registered practically in every state there are some presidential candidates that are only registered in certain States those normally get weeded out by the primaries
Wait...people are actually doing this? I thought it was a funny joke...
Then maybe if there was a box that said "non of the above" people wouldn't do this.

I've defaced my ballot paper when I literally don't believe in any of the candidates. I want bite for people I don't believe in
Too late
Tomatoes Tomawtoes
Better a wasted vote than any of the presidential candidates
If you like not having a gift shop in the office next to the oval office. Vote blue. Time to get serious.
Don't tell me what to do, I'll write goofy in if I want to.
I dont care about politics I would vote markiplier as a joke even if it gets thrown out idc about anyone in office do what they want it isnt my problem I gave up a long time ago on politics and I can say the same thing for the people who put in joke votes bc they most likely dont care either
Instructions unclear. Voting “Mark Edward Fischbach” on all ballots, from county/city level to federal government level.
"Better not,"
Brother, you better tell me what to do unless you want me to spite you.
I mean, our votes barely count as is seeing as how our electorate votes are outdated 😂
I’m gonna do it anyway!!
Idc
Bro it’s a joke 😭. Anyone who genuinely writes down Mark knows they are throwing their vote away. They are doing it for memes.

No one of legal voting age actually thinks that he’s genuinely running
you should at least put his real name, John Donald trump
He could be a good protest vote though. Remember folks, a protest vote means something. Not voting at all means nothing. Go vote.
US really should count spoiled ballots
Vote is not valid thus vote doesn't count if everyone does this that's basically protesting the election
Well im sure as hell not voting for 2 senile old coots who dont know what the world needs. Every option sucks. We are doomed. I am writing in WHO I WANT. THAT IS NOT TOSSING A VOTE ITS MAKING A STAND AGAINST DOUCHEBAGS.
I see ballots voting for Mickey Mouse and Kermit the Frog, among other things

Deleted other comment, same thing but posted twice for some reason
In some states, candidates can actually use nicknames, but not in all states though.
Can you not use someone’s monicker? I thought you could use your legal name or a name you are widely associated with.
You can write in whatever you want. If that's the majority it would be figured out by the election officials. Just vote Biden and any other Democrat to get rid of this MAGA corruption
Hell, any minority, really. If you're not white, straight, christian, old, and male (note: being rich can substitute for two of these), you should be *very* concerned about this upcoming election.
If people wanted to vote for either Trump or Biden though, why would they vote for Markiplier instead?
Meanwhile OP is openly voting for a third party candidate 95% of the population don’t even know is running. The brain rot is real.
Nah I was real tempted to vote Mark for the lolz tbh. I mean yea, I won’t, but funny
I'm sorry, but I'm not voting for either of the dementia ridden genocideers.
>Also can we please take this election seriously? Like is Biden the best? No. But he's a hell of a lot better than Trump. Like look at Project 2025.

The thing that he has never once endorsed, or said he supports, or said he plans to use as his Presidential platform?

I get that project 2025 is big bad boogieman doomsday sky is falling buzzword, but the guy has his own presidential platform that he won't shut up about called Agenda 47.
One catch is that you're supposed to vote for all the elections you have available to you, but too many people only vote in presidential elections. Make your voice known for everything from school budgets to governor.
In some states it matters far more. I happen to live in CA so my vote is like 1/20th the power of someone in Rural Ohio. My vote basically doesn't matter since CA votes blue no matter what. I focus on Policies when it comes to these elections, and my Congressional Representatives, because thats where my vote has the most value. I'll still vote for who I believe is the best choice for President but since I live in CA overall "My" vote goes to the Blue team.

I also feel its important to note here, that I don't believe in either of the 2 candidates we have as options. I think they are both miserably bad the the US, and I will be voting for a 3rd party. Who that is I just don't know yet. I don't care if its seen as throwing my vote away, I still need to vote for what I believe in.
In 2016, Clinton lost to Trump by 0.6% in Pennsylvania and Wisconsin. She lost by 0.3% in Michigan, which is only 10,000 votes. In Michigan, 33,000 people wrote in someone not on the ballot. In a room full of 100 people, Hillary Clinton lost the election by 2. That's why your vote matters. Apathy from progressive and moderate voters is how conservatives and fascists win elections. Even with an electoral college, there are swing states and states that flip.

**If you want something actionable to do to fix this, join a canvassing group like progressive victory and help get the politicians who actually want to make a difference elected** If you care about a specific cause like ranked choice voting, find a candidate in a close race for this upcoming election that also cares (not presidential, do this for state and local politics) and canvas for them. Incremental change is better than no change.
To my understanding, our votes matter because the electors in the electoral college are supposed to vote for whoever has the most votes in the district that they represent, and while they could deviate from that, and vote for whoever they prefer, they usually don't, and they usually vote for whoever their district prefers. 

In other words, our votes contribute to the members of the electoral college deciding who to vote for.

The two party system and electoral college suck, but there's not much that we as individuals can do to get rid of either of them.
I would love to have ranked choice voting, as well as doing away with the electoral college. The system is designed to play favorites with those already in power. The system needs to be dismantled and rebuilt from the ground up to be the most fair for the most amount of people. I'm voting third party
Maine, Alaska, and soon Nevada use RCV in elections 

RCV did seriously change the outcome of elections in 2018 election 2nd Maine, and both House and Senate in Alaska
You have to win the current game to change the rules for the better.

So every vote against Trump is important. Don't throw up your hands in the air and give up.
just vote ffs
Your votes are cast for electors. Those electors are pledged to the person who won the popular vote in your state. **Electors aren’t random people, they’re chosen by the campaign they’re pledged to.**

A vote for Biden is a vote for Biden. If Biden wins the popular vote in your state, your states’ electors go to Biden.
> I know this gets brought up a bunch, but I’m seriously still confused on how our votes matter with something like the electoral college process.
> 
> 

Because the results of a state are based on the popular vote within the state itself.

The winner of the popular vote on a state by state basis gets the electoral votes of the state.
It is mathematically impossible for any system of ranked choice voting (with more than 1 voter) to eliminate the spoiler effect.

Via Arrow’s Impossibility Theorem.

https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Arrow%27s_impossibility_theorem
It is about half as “bad” tho by math
It's a real shame. The way I see it, America isn't really a free country if you can't vote for someone to represent your beliefs, if there are only too choices and neither are desirable, knowing that there's someone you agree with, but can't in good faith vote for, is a real gut-punch.
Not a total waste for 3rd party. 3 times in American history a 3rd party has won. Also yes the chance of 3rd party winning in modern America maybe slim but getting a 3rd party on the debate stage is needed again.
When we get ballots that just have a message but no votes, it gets set aside without being tabulated. When we get ones that have votes as well as messages, we ignore the messages and tabulate the ballot.

Then, in adjudication, their votes get verified by a team of two. It has to be verified because the computer detected something that shouldn't be there, like writing.
I don't know for sure. Could be a few reasons that I mentioned in another comment. Might be worth a google
Which is most likely democrat
Project 2025 will just become project 2029 if Biden wins. Plus, why vote for someone committing genocide? Protest, Both candidates. Neither are fit for the job.
I won't tell you who to vote for, but there's still third party candidates. You can protest the two party system while showing support for an alternative
I've seen those too
A protest vote won't change the outcome of a presidential election, millions of protest votes wouldn't change the outcome, not the way things are set up.
This. I helped with the elections last cycle in my small town and someone wrote Joan of Arc down. what an absolute waste.

Also: thank you for this post. I was thinking the other day like…god, it was funny to begin with, but for the love of god don’t actually do it.
We.. know his full name. Mark Edwards/Edward Fischbach
I was kinda surprised how many people learned about proj 2025 after the debates. 🙃 It's scary. I haven't been excited to vote in 2 cycles but I know enough to go out and do it anyway.
Even if you're white, straight, or male this election is a significant risk for you. All but an Elite and inner circle will suffer. Decisions made in the 80s still affect the lives of Americans today, imagine 40 years of repercussions from allowing this to go the wrong way due to apathy or memes.
Don’t forget cisgender and right leaning. I’m genuinely convinced we might have another civil war and I’m honestly trying to flee the country.
+ able-bodied + neurotypical. (edited to fix a dumb mistake)
Umm even white people are very much concerned. And males too....
Because a lot of far left progressives don’t want *any* liberal politicians. Total reform is the goal; UBI, nationalized healthcare, housing, education and transportation. Socialism isn’t being a democrat like most say, it’s a complete reform away from capitalism that puts the means of production in all our hands. No more making things or creating jobs just to stimulate economic markets, everyone gets the basics to live, eat, and be treated regardless of their job, even those who don’t work at all, even if they are capable.



Democratic socialists are closer to alt right conservatives than they are to actual socialists and communists, but at least they don’t force children to give birth and outlaw being poor, a minority or openly support fascist ideology. 



But both parties work for the rich. The country is ran by companies, not ideals or the benefits of its people. Profit drives all politicians, and in lower levels of government, it’s a necessary evil because you literally need money to do things for free. If the right people don’t get paid in favors or money, you do not exist.




For the right, it’s not at all the same landscape. Trump has a personality cult surrounding him as the hero to fix all the problems, and even those who heavily disagree with him will still vote full red ticket because of the false narrative that the American left party supports actual socialism and the dismantling of capitalism.
They are an actual candidate though which I think is the main thing
Now why'd you get downvoted😭
[deleted]
I agree and vote in my local elections, but still it would be much nicer with ranked choice.
Given the fact that I live in CA and my singular vote doesn't get alot of traction in the Presidential election, I happen to be in the other camp, and I make sure to get out to vote in all of the minot elections. I want a say on my Local and State legislature, budget assignments, tax increases, and who takes on my local gov't positions. 

The smaller elections are about the only ones where my vote really means anything in the grand scheme of things based on where I live.
Thanks for your insight. Actually meaningful feedback.
Cool. Thanks for the insight. How do we the people change the system, because it doesn’t seem that politicians want to?
Not that my opinion matters, but voting third party is functionally the same as writing Mark in. They won't win, and the only message you are sending is an easier path to project 2025, a Republican hellscape. 

Anyone who doesn't want convicted felon Donald Trump as president better vote for the other serious candidate running for office. 

Say what you will about Biden, but he isn't insane, his policies have been pretty solid, and he can actually win, unlike any other 3rd party vote.
It's your vote to do with as you please. But please...I implore you, please don't vote 3rd party. At least not for this year's presidential election. We need as many blue votes as possible in order to even have a chance at stopping P2025
Voting third party doesn't mean much if there's no ranked choice, or some form of multi-party rep. At the end of the day, I am mailed only two ballots, red or blue.
> I'm voting third party

That's just throwing your vote away.
How do we the people change the system, because it doesn’t seem that politicians want to?
I do. Doesn’t mean I don’t have criticism about the system.
Tbf, I live in a county that just doesn’t sway the vote of my state ever. My vote is quite literally worthless.
that doesn't mean that fptp isn't one of the worst ways of doing things 
That is how we got Trump in office last time. Protesting during voting hurts no one but yourself. They lose nothing by it, we gain nothing from it. Don't be dumb.
Tis'my right!
I was a person that wrote in Mickey Mouse my first time voting and now I just don’t put anything down if I’m not going to pick someone that’s on the ballot. I live in a red state and refuse to vote red at all so when I only have one choice and it’s red I just don’t put anything down on that “choice” but those tend to be in the state/county stuff since I’m also in a rural area
"What an absolute waste"

Just like all the other scraps of paper you counted.
The vote still won't count. He's not a registered candidate
Somebody living outside of the USA here, just looked into project 2025, and that... oh my god
Hey what did I do? 😔 (cis, definitely not right wing.)
Ya know... I am a little tired of the derogatory nature of the use of the word Cisgender. It ain't bad to associate yourself with your birth sex. Like at all. And demonising the word, "cis," or "cisgender," perpetuates yet another stereotype that "All Cisgender People Hate Trans/Leftists," when that's just factually untrue. 

Thank you for coming to my TedTalk.
*neurotypical

Nerodivergent refers to (among MANY others) things such as ADHD
I'm a white male, trust me, I get it. The key part is that unless you're ALL of those things I listed (and a few others that other folks brought up), you should probably be concerned. But even those people who are all of them *should* be concerned.
If you want to change the system, you need to have the power to make that change happen in the first place. In this election, one party will allow you to keep your voting power, while the other will try to make it so this one jackass gets to be president-for-life and persecute anyone he deems an enemy at will. And if you’re of the opinion that voting isn’t a path to reform and you need a revolution instead… consider which half of the country has all the guns. You gotta be realistic about what’s in your grasp, or we could lose everything.
With 0% chance of winning. I’d love an independent making it to the end as much as the next guy, but voting for one in our current political climate is literally throwing your vote your vote away, as much as that sucks.
they implied they were gonna vote for trump
Probs cause my comment implies that imma vote trump. Most people on Reddit don’t like that 🤷‍♀️
[deleted]
And yet, he is not doing that this time.

Why would he have his own Presidential platform if theirs already exists?

Why would he be advertising his platform, if he was going to just follow theirs?
It’s hard to see in our society but even if your vote doesn’t directly show in the grand scheme of things it does still count. Like if you see talking heads talk about issues your vote is shown in their statistics. Just because you don’t get a high five and can see direct impact doesn’t mean it doesn’t count. 

Like seeing polls of things, like, 55% of people voted for pro choice politicians (made up statistic) can be comforting for a young person to know when they’re feeling like the world is against them.
Of course! Politics can be daunting and discouraging, but they're also very important. As long as people put in the effort, there's hope for a better future. Good luck!
I'm not sure how, or if, we can change the system. I think we'd need politicians who are willing to change it, and while I think that they do exist, they seem to be a minority. Most of them are seemingly fine with the system as it currently stands.
vote for politicians that oppose first past the poll, and annoy the ones who do get elected, and have power to do anything about it.
You vote in local/state elections for people that do want to change the system
Honestly, local and state elections are the way. These folk are the closest representatives to us, and slowly but surely, we will get candidates that align closer to our voices. 

The other thing is to keep yourself reasonably informed. From what’s going on in your school districts, all the way to what are our congressmen doing, is good stuff to keep an ear and eye on. You don’t need to spend hours reading up on it and if it begins to wear at your mental health step away, which is why I’m saying reasonable. But keeping informed matters. This will help you to make good decisions for your town, county, state, and nation. 

Lastly — play video games! Video games push us to use creative problem solving and critical thinking, two things that are under attack right now in schools, so the younger you are the weaker these muscles might be due to whatever your local right wing chapters have done to education. Mark would approve more games for all of us, haha.
I am not a fan of Biden but he is 1000x better than the other option. I admit Biden made decisions I kinda agree with.
If everyone says don’t vote for third party because no one will vote for it, isn’t that kind of causing the whole problem? If we all just say fuck it, and vote third party (assuming our votes are legitimate, which who knows anymore) wouldn’t that be enough to at least have a chance to surpass the other parties?
I know my party has a slim chance at winning, but I can not vote for biden without sacrificing my morals. I will not vote for anyone who funds genocide, especially with my tax dollars
I fear that at this point physical measures might have to be taken by we the people. But this is neither the time not the subreddit to discuss this
Same, but I'm still going to vote. I want trump to lose by as many votes as possible even if my individual vote isn't going to change anything. Popular vote might be meaningless but you know losing it, especially by a lot, must still hurt his ego.
No, Trump got into office because the Democratic party apparatus decided to do everything in its power to shoot down the incredibly popular Social Democratic campaign of Bernie Sanders in favor of a more "moderate" Neo-Liberal candidate like Hillary Clinton.
Spoiling your vote is a better protest than leaving a vote blank or not voting just coming from someone who votes in the UK and Ireland. Idk about the US but spoiled ballots have to be counted where I live, they go in a separate count and if it's sizeable it shows the candidate there is gonna have built in opposition among their constituents that aren't loyal to the other party which means that opposition is perhaps more dangerous to them.

Spoiling your vote is legitimate protest, don't listen to snarky people telling you "what a waste", it's MUCH better than leaving it blank or not voting at all because it registers active displeasure. which sounds mild but again if many do it it's significant.

If you're not gonna vote for any candidate, don't just stay home and don't leave it blank. Spoil it.
That's stupid. What's even the point of writing-in a candidate?
Yes, quite possibly the best thing to hear about since the debate
Just saying that cis people are a majority and are therefore not attacked by rightwingers(on average.) as far as I can tell you did nothing wrong.
what? the person you’re replying to was just saying that cisgender people would not be negatively affected by the election results due to them being cisgender. saying that cisgender people are privileged does not say anything bad about cisgender people.
The point was that trans people are under attack when cis people aren’t. It is an adjective that is easier than “non trans”, it is not an insult.
The user above wasn't pointing any fingers at cis people, but instead expressing their belief that the Republican party favors a certain demographic at the expense of those who do not fall within that demographic. They were adding two things to the list of the previous poster, without any regards to the gender identity of the Republicans who support it, as there was no need. I think they're correct to append those two terms, since it's made very clear through Republicans' doings, the least of which is not Project 2025, that they do not even want to discuss gender nonconformity, much less support institutions vital to the wellbeing of many underserved Americans. Rather than isolate the part of this quote that mentions gender, I'll include the whole thing:

>The next conservative President must make the institutions of American civil society hard targets for woke culture warriors. This starts with deleting the terms sexual orientation and gender identity (“SOGI”), diversity, equity, and inclusion (“DEI”), gender, gender equality, gender equity, gender awareness, gender sensitive, abortion, reproductive health, reproductive rights, and any other term used to deprive Americans of their First Amendment rights out of every federal rule, agency regulation, contract, grant, regulation, and piece of legislation that exists.   
*(Project 2025's "Mandate for Leadership: The Conservative Promise", p. 36-37)*

When I use cis/cisgender I do it to clarify someone's identity (they're not trans or gender non-conforming), never derogatorily! No one is ever lesser because of something outside their control. I was put into a body that matches how I feel, and I think I fall in the gender binary, so I'm cis myself. I'm sorry if anyone has called you cisgender as a term of offense.
Is this demonisation of the word cis in the room with us right now?
Cis is not a derogatory term?
it just means 'not trans' buddy
The only reason you think it's derogatory is because you use the opposite as such.
Love the fear mongering after 4 years where nothing happened to literally any of the categories you listed above. Well, except for straight, white, Christians. Violence has skyrocketed against them. And the black community, but that's black on black crime amd inept leftist policy and not the fear mongering you're suggesting. It's just interesting to see who's foolish enough to still believe the doom and gloom emotional blackmail for the 2nd time around.
I am realistic. I’m voting blue ticket. I just wish I didn’t have to.
Won't happen under our current voting method. A third party candidate would have better luck if we switched over to at least some form of ranked ballot.
I get that, but is mindlessly downvoting on an opinion the way to go about anything? I think Biden is many times over the better choice than Trump, but it's sad that Mark's community of all things is one that isn't facilitating actual discussion
Well, fascism does kinda suck.
[deleted]
Well yeah, whatever keeps them in power, right? Ha the status quo is better for them in that sense.
So how many people would actually stick to the third party vote when push comes to shove? Where people hit the polls and say 'yeah, i'm in for the libertarian green party guy', write it down, and take the chance of winning seriously when you hardly see campaigns for this person who has zero chance. People drop out of the race cuz running for president is expensive and tiresome, and the parties have to unify behind one candidate to even have a CHANCE of winning on election day.

Voting for a third party doesn't *cause* the problem, its a symptom we have to deal with because that's the precedent. the US's entire political system is built on two parties. This kind of thing would need to be changed from within the political system as a politician, not as a voter. Especially when they make voting difficult for minorities and the disabled, people living in rural areas, and generally people with long hours at their jobs.
Out of genuine curiosity, do you believe that voting third party against biden will bode well if that causes a trump presidency? I 100% understand voting third party in any other scenario but I can’t morally vote third party this election knowing that the alternative is someone who is already dangerously close to taking so many peoples’ rights away.
It’s not a slim chance it’s a mathematical impossibility. I respect your decision and beliefs but you should be realistic about 3rd parties in our current state of affairs.
I got you, but given that Biden is refusing to play dirty given the recent Supreme Court decision (even though he totally could at this point), I think we can make an educated guess as to who will adhere to the rule of law, which, at a federal government level, is critical; if even generally level headed people who aren't on team Democrat are getting worried (including those whose professions are in law), I think the fear is probably at least somewhat merited. I politically lean left but I did NOT see the concern over the state of democracy itself with McCain or Romney-- I generally tend to view such narratives as fearmongering, but looking at Project 2025 itself and things Trump has actually said, I think being concerned is rational response. I know Biden is not a "great" (or even "good") candidate, and he's not as sharp as he was in 2012, but I'd vote for an actual corpse before Trump if that was his main opponent.

Also, FWIW, Trump plans to be much more ghoulish when it comes to supporting Israel, so that's something to consider on a practical level when voting. I don't like the two party system either, but whether we like it or not doesn't change that it exists as of now.
So your post is pretty meaningless since what you’re doing is the same as voting for Markiplier. It’s Biden or Trump, those are the choices. Not voting for Biden is the same as voting for Trump.
I really hate framing it like this but your morals won't matter if Project 2025 is implmented.
Your party doesn’t have a “slim chance” of winning, it has a 0% chance of winning.

I understand what you’re saying, I do, but voting 3rd party at this point in time is as good as not voting at all.
By not voting for Biden, you are helping Trump win. By voting third party, you are ensuring that Project 2025 happens. And you are contributing to the genocide yourself, indirectly, because Trump will make it *worse*.
[deleted]
Project 25 outlines the ground work for the genocide of trans Americans, how about those morals?
That is to say it was the Democrats who ALLOWED Trump to get into office because they refuse positive change. They prefer this unholy Yin and Yang between Fascists like Trump and Neo-Liberals like Biden because it maintains the current Socio-Economic order which benefits this dictatorship of the Rich we have in this country. Nothing will change unless we oppose this system.
This would work in theory, if the Democrats here in the USA had any survival insticts at all. They are terrible campaigners.
Voting in the UK and the USA are very different, a big part why it had no meaningful effect in the USA is because it isn't mandatory to vote in the USA as it is in the UK, so while in the UK it does actually have some form of significance, in the USA it does not
Some candidates aren't on the ballot, but can still be voted for. I'm unsure of the exact reasoning. Could be ballot length, could be popularity, could be party preference. Google might have an answer
there are people running who might not be on the ballot, take joe exotic running years ago for example
Yeah, it's a single instance of a person using the word cisgender, and so from the outside looking in doesn't really mean a whole lot within its context as a reply regarding politics, and within this person's.. what, narrative? within this person's narrative, they aren't directly using it derogatorily. Yeah. I get that. It's more like... And I suppose because I'm cis, and was raised old school (by my grandparents), that once I started hearing anyone demonising cisgender (i.e., normal, everyday people whom I interact with on an at least weekly basis; as well as influencer-type individuals who are (I think the term is) "allied" or are directly trans) I started to also categorise trans folk into a stereotype myself. But, that's a bit of human nature in there. I hear people saying bullshit like, "cis people always hate me; cis people would never understand *x-y-z thing* about being trans; all cis people are rightist Christian extremists with no common morality;" just makes me so disillusioned to the entire trans community.

Which, in hindsight and without realizing it, was also a stereotype I myself built. 

And personally, from my perspective, Trans people are significantly more "privileged" than anybody cis that I know. They get their own damn bathroom because .. why? (Yes I know that isn't a universal thing, but the fact it exists is just mindboggling to me.)
This is scary and all but it is rather funny that they are looking to “get back” first amendment rights by taking away everyone’s first amendment rights to discuss issues that have little to do with the first amendment.
I DONT BELIEVE IN DEMONISATIONS!! but when I turned around ....
It is not, it simply acts as the flip side for the words trans/Transgender.
The term cis (or cisgender) is used to help clarify things. Put simply, it just means you identify with the gender the doctors put on your birth certificate when you were born.
It also helps to avoid the terms trans/Transgender being used to "other" people, or make it seem unnatural. 

[When we (people, not necessarily you and I) say, or imply that being straight and cisgender is "normal" or is the normality, it tells people who fall outside those categories that they are unnatural, abnormalities.]

Similar to how straight is the word used as the flip side of gay, it's not an insult, it just helps to make things clearer to understand.
You're absolutely right, not to mention the mention of black on black crime and rampant anti-whiteism.
No I agree with you man. Its just that redditer mentality for downvoting/upvoting without thinking about it
I can see why people are responding with downvotes. The comment has an unserious tone when we're facing the destruction of a democracy.

That kind of flippant commenting is what led to the 2016 election result and the massive weakening of our democracy.
Why would he need to lie about not supporting one platform if there's as much overlap as you claim? Did you even look at Agenda 47 before you made that statement?

>and people like you go along with it.

Oh I'm a Biden voter. I just think 99% of you hyperbolic dipshits are as delusional as Trump supporters when you act like the sky is falling 24/7.
Do everything you can to make your voice heard by your representatives. Put the work in and utilize the system and tools at our disposal
So if the voting system is so heavily geared towards republican vs. democrat and there’s absolutely no way for the voters to actually get the third party to win, then why even have the party on the ballot in the first place? That just doesn’t really make a lot of sense to me
THIS. 

Trump will undoubtadely be worse. 

Not to mention, Biden has been campaigning for a cease fire, but Israel and Hamas won't agree to it. 

Trump means no NATO and likely a 3rd World War. A Trump presidency could easily see US troops fighting on the side of Putin. 

Also, do you really think Trump won't start chuking US bombs at the Middle East the first chance he gets?
Voting for biden shows you support him and his policies. The blood of Palestine is on his hands and those who shake hands with him. I will not ignore the innocent people who are subject to this brutal imperialism. I am not complicit in their genocide
Facts oh my god. Also it gets worse when you think about how the people who will be suffering during a second 4 years of trump are more likely to be your friends and family. Re: the coronavirus.
I won't let fear dictate my decision making. It seems to me that fear is the democratic party's main tool to gain voters
They are 100% absolutely terrible at this campaign I agree. I can link a comment I made about this yesterday if you wanted, but they have been COMPLETELY ineffectual in opposing the literal fascism the right is  offering, and when it should be an easy win for Social Democratic candidates they're running someone who has alienated the entire anti-genocide block of voters, the entire young vote, and has shown himself to be utterly and completely unable to convince swing voters and reassure people about his age. 

And look, I'm an outsider, but I have an intimate view of US politics as a political scientist. I'm not saying don't vote in the presidential, or always spoil your vote, but in ANY election, local, state level whatever. It's always worth more to spoil than to stay home if you remain unconvinced. If I were in the US, for the presidential I would vote biden. In conjunction with organizing for actual good policies ofc, but I still would. But if someone isn't going to vote for him, I'd still rather they spoiled and registered that they think the choice is bad enough that they made actual effort to protest it.
I think the major difference in the USA is, true democratic politicians talk to their voters like adults, they say "he we want to fix these things so you guys can have better lives, please vote for me and I will do my best to make it happen" menwhile republics say "I'm gonna get rid of all the people you don't like, I'm gonna get rid of laws you don't like, if you don't vote for me you're the enemy and you're evil so vote for me and I'll save America" anyone in the middle of these is some variation.
It's not mandatory to vote in the UK. You're thinking of Australia. And spoiling your vote ALWAYS has significance because they count every ballot to make sure that it is not for a candidate.
Maybe I should propose a bill that would allow anyone to be written in as a candidate.
I'm so glad everyone trying to be president is terrible.
Kanye as well years. And Bernie as far as I remember being told was a write in since independents aren’t showed on ballots
Transgender individuals are absolutely not more privileged. That is absurd. Did someone trans hurt you?
I’m cis, but I’m pretty sure that the bathroom for trans people was not created for privilege, but out of necessity for their safety. Trans people regularly get harassed and assaulted in bathrooms. 

That’s like saying that women are more privileged than men because women-only train cars exist— but the reason we have them is because sexual harassment and sexual assault against women got so bad in the other cars. 

Giving people space to feel safe isn’t a privilege. Feeling safe in most “regular” spaces is a privilege.
Sorry, my question mark was meant to mark a lift in tone at the end of my statement to indicate incredulousness.
[deleted]
The illusion of choice
That's the point. Yes, ideally, we'd have about 5 or so viable parties with a healthy ecosystem of ideas to choose from. 

Unfortunately, we don't. 

You have two options with your vote: vote for a major party person (R or D) or waste it.
Biden only called for a cease fire once he realized how many votes he was losing, and it was still in favor of israel, an apartheid state, which needs to be dismantled
That’s not what I’m asking though. Would you prefer the other outcome to this election? I despise biden, but I cannot afford to flee this country if trump becomes president because that is the other option.
Biden isn't the only person who made that decision. I mean I don't like the guy but trump has vowed to RETALIATE AGAINST HIS ENEMIES like dictators do when they're angry and seeking power. What about the rest of the politicians who agreed with this? What about European countries who agreed with this? What about the thousands of other genocides that have gone on in countries we, as a nation, simply don't care to talk about?

There's money behind genocide. Billions and billions of dollars that go towards this kinda thing Voting out Biden changes nothing in that regard, unfortunately. Same could be said for Trump, unless he packs the supreme court with conservative sexists. Oh, he did? Oops!

Also let's be fair here. Trump had migrants put in (concentration) camps in the very first year in his presidency, and those people are still suffering from it to this day.
>am not complicit in their genocide

Until Trump wins and does worse
The alternative option has openly said he is going to demolish Palestine and build hotels along the coast. You are supporting the literal and complete ethnic cleansing of Palestine.
Trump is an Israel supporter as well. One candidate, we get another election after. The other, we get no elections again. Project 2025 is terrifying and real. A vote for anyone else is a vote for Trump in very real ways.
You are a tar pit
You're a fool if you believe the right is the fascist ones
Me when I force people to be president
We deserve it tbh
Chris Pierce is someone who can written in he’s made it obvious he’s running and would like to voted in. He’d be the first openly gay potus
Tried to stab me, actually.
Ah, alright. Thank you for clarification
If it's as in line as you claim it is, then why does he not just endorse project 2025? I get that making conspiracy theories makes you feel important, but you're not exactly very convincing.

>You're trying to engage in misdirection to defend trump.

? 

Do you have brain damage?
>and it was still in favor of israel, an apartheid state, which needs to be dismantled

Again, FWIW, when it became clear Israel was not simply "defending itself", Biden criticized Israel for their attacks on the Gaza strip and *has* demanded a ceasefire (though in terms of action, it's been abysmal, I will completely agree). Trump thinks Israel was weak for letting October 7 happen, but has since stated that he backs Israel completely, but thinks they should stop publicizing their actions because it's bad PR (one [source](https://www.seattletimes.com/nation-world/where-trump-and-biden-stand-on-israel-and-gaza/) for that), we're talking not being anywhere near tough enough in opposition vs endorsement, and the reason Trump has cited for wanting to stop the war, or "get it over with", whatever it means is [PR](https://apnews.com/article/trump-biden-israel-pr-hugh-hewitt-21faee332d95fec99652c112fbdcd35d); I don't know if you care about morals (I'm guessing you do, given your stance), but that's worth noting. 

I know it sucks, but voting is often a matter of mitigating the damages to keep things from getting worse, as grim as that sounds. If you dislike the current candidates, I urge you to fight like hell in the primaries for someone you *actually* think should actually be president (for myself, that was Bernie Sanders, and he came very close both times) and also, if you choose to be idealistic (in politics, idealism without compromise will make you VERY disappointed), get involved in your local and state elections, which can be just as consequential; an OR house candidate I canvassed for is largely responsible for ensuring access to reproductive care and abortion, which is now part of Oregon's state law after going to a vote as a ballot measure (which I also canvassed in favor of) in the middle of Trump's presidency.
So the options are bomb Palestine or bomb Palestine? I choose neither. Do not accuse me of supporting ethnic cleansing
Bros trying to make the world government they discussed on distractible a reality.
What bathrooms do transgender individuals get different than regular ones? Family bathrooms have existed for decades.
One president is sending aid to Gazans and supports a two state solution with an independent Palestine, the other is openly calling for their complete extermination to build resorts. You are supporting ethnic cleansing, either through willful ignorance or malice and that’s a fact regardless of whether or not you can see through your cognitive dissonance to recognize it.
Democratic stochocracy world government time
Its a thing I've seen in cities, in mass transit stations. One bus station I stayed overnight at in Chicago had a "trans" placard thing.
Biden had every chance to call a ceasefire and send aid instead of weapons. He only now chooses to because he's losing voters, as if the plight of the Palestinian people is the "hip new thing" that young people are into. I am not complicit. I am not voting for biden
Riot is manipulating data for you to instal Vanguard
 In May of 2020 they had posted:

" The **highest rate (of scripters) in recorded history was on April 14th, 2016 (4.4%)**, and the **lowest was on June 26th, 2018 (0.0%)**. "

https://preview.redd.it/k5ma35kv60uc1.png?width=1898&format=png&auto=webp&s=72a8c4e05b845078d2a3c8dbc38f2dbef88fd8dd

However in the latest DEV Blog they had combined botters and scripters into one statistic, even though that wasn't the case in the previous article: 

https://preview.redd.it/cap6q6w470uc1.png?width=1780&format=png&auto=webp&s=6772be5ae9ec1da8b385a8bd8ac5f219d727beb7

 In fact, the difference between numbers of botters to scripters is so high, that if you copare it to 2020 trend, there were around 200k botted accounts reported weekly VS 4k actual scripters weekly. That is 1/50 scripter to botter ratio, which would indicate that "omg there are over 15% scripters in our game" (even though we claimed its 0,5% in 2020) is highly fabricated and based on statistic manipulation. 

https://preview.redd.it/zuj4nsy570uc1.png?width=460&format=png&auto=webp&s=d0f52336d027d221fa6c4733d4778d9e48b54b19

https://preview.redd.it/2qcjx82770uc1.png?width=400&format=png&auto=webp&s=4331c65348b3d7189a436dd89b4013ce2a032d60

 Source 1: ***/DEV: ANTI-CHEAT IN LOL (& MORE) - 8 May 2020***  
Source 2: ***/DEV: VANGUARD X LOL*** \- 11 April 2024 
Great, I'm glad they will start banning bots.
Jokes on them, the only info they are going to get on me through vanguard is my porn preferences
The blogpost being like "If your issue is with trusting riot the info is still stored here with or without vanguard" Is also very misleading and like strawman argument or whatever cause nobody is scared of that. The info is whatever but the lead concern that they didn't adress in the post was that root access means that if theres some sort of security leak or flaw or exploit now everyones whole pcs are compromised.
The graph later on has scripting in ranked specifically and it is still ridicilously high, you think there are many botted dia+ accounts running?   
And maybe you are not aware, but the reason why cheating is so much more rampant is because they had a breach a few years ago that clearly compromised its anti-cheat. But you would probably say that was an inside job to push vanguard even more right?
I didn't think it was possible for someone to be this ignorant of how data works. Funny how you ignore the chart that shows only scripters being 10% of master games and try to compare 2020 to 2022 when the numbers jump from 2% scripters to 10%. Its almost like not updating a hack check for 6 years means more people eventually break it... wow! Completely wrong Schizo post
Data manipulation would be changing the numbers from what they actually are to portray a different picture, these two dev blogs are simply using two different metrics. They also aren't hiding the fact that the two graphs are monitoring two different things, you actually highlight exactly where they are very clear about it. Also, their first blog is from 4 years ago and if you look both graphs change quite a bit over time.   


Stop trying to spread misinformation. The only people blowing this Vanguard situation out of proportion are people that have no idea what they are talking about.
Idk I’ve got comp sci friends who play league and aren’t worried about Vanguard one bit. 

Seems like a nothing burger. Valorant has had it since release and still nothing bad
Two things. 

Aren't you assuming that "bot"/"botter" means an account that was botted to level 30 and sold to a real human. When it could mean a bot playing ranked matches, which is somewhat of a problem in low elo games.

Secondly, the 15% is not saying that 15% of players are scripters. It's saying that 15% of GAMES have a scripter. Games have 10 players, meaning it's more like 1.5% of players are scripters.

Edit: Also, it's not an unreasonable chain of events that after 6 years of Packman and a source code leak, scripters have become too good at beating it. That to fix Packman would be to rebuild it and they already did that, it's called Vanguard. Hell, they said as much in the post. I would expect the number of scripters to increase dramatically compared to 2020.
Please quit the game
Funny how the are "lying" but still writing that obvious distinction into their published graphs...

If they wanted to fake it, they would redefine cheater and scripter, and just publish all their data without a flashing sign "this incluedes bot's".

But it is imposible that riot also thinks that bot's have become a huge problem (especially since there is a significant problem with even high level games getting intentionally ruined by people running multiple grieving bot's). 5 percent of games having a bot and being more or less ruined has likely more impact on the game satisfaction compared to 5% of games having a scripter.

But you have found 2 graphs that are taling about slightly different things (with flashing signs) so they must be lying.

The graphs you provide have a massive increase in bot's 2018, and another massive increase in bot's or scripters in 2022 (if your asumptions are right, primarily bot's).

Edit: There is also in the current version of the post no proof that bot's have not been counted in the 2020 graph. An aditional explanation was added in the subheader of the 2024 graph, but with the information of the 2020 graph cheater would in most definitions incluede bots.

Edit 2: I went through the data. It sugests that the first graph does not contain botts as OP sugested. On the other hand OP did not show the cheaters per game and division graphs, that shows that the percentage of cheaters in GM rarely drops below 5%. (And that is the detection with a beaten cheat detection system.)  
I have seen bot's play. GM might be a rather small part of the game, but in high Elo scripters seem to be a significant problem. There has been a time when more than 10% of Master+ games had at least 1 cheater in them.
please take your meds
Honestly I don't think that Vanguard is that big a deal considering that similar programs are being used by lots of games, some of which nearly everyone has probably played at one point or another. 
It's not like they aren't able to get any of that data now.
Latam Facebook groups are already being flooded with recruiters from account farms offering \~5USD in pump&dump cryptos to anyone willing to enslave themselves on that shit.. But people called me crazy when i said the acc levelling bots would be replaced by thrid world country 'employees'... So glad you can actually talk about this on this sub, /leagueoflegends and /summonerschool instaban you.

Anyone that thinks the bot issue will be solved by Vanguard is just a naive nortAmerican / westEuropean, if you think you can't get close to free labour from thirld world country teenagers with no real job contract you clearly never lived in one of said countries...

Also anyone that thinks that BattleEye and the like are even close to Vanguard regarding how invaside they are just because both are labeled as 'kernel-level', you have NO idea about how your computer works aside from maybe 3 LTT videos, do everyone a favor and shut up. Being invasive is not only a problem if Riot want to acces you data which seems to be what everyone believes is the main problem, it compromises your computer stability, and it's not like we are talking about a company that is known for making stable and troughly tested software... Also they are under the influece of the worlds 2 most invasive governments AND they already had hackers wandering around their servers MULTIPLE times in the past, so you are basically giving away your privacy to 4 potentially malicious actors and the stability of your computer handed off to the same company that can't make a launcher that doesn't shit itself every 2 weeks. ((( Like seriously HOW have yall already fogotten about Valorant blue screening your computer for TWO WHOLE YEARS without a single acknoledgement from Riot and when they decided to fix it they were like ''uhmm oopsiee, yeah it was us, sry for bricking your pc'')))

Anyone that actually wants to cheat will just do it on macOs because guess what, Vanguard will not get implemented there, and sure, macOs offers A LOT more tools to check for system integrity/security but League uses a total of ZERO of them, you can just boot up a monterey vm and launch league no questions asked, you could do anything your hearth pleases outside the vm and the game would have no idea.. I don't think they are THAT stupid though, so if bots end up being a real problem and not a fabricated excuse i can see them just killing LoL on Mac in the near future.

This could be avoided by allowing community servers or an 'unsafe' playing mode but whatever, i guess i clearly am the conspiranoic one and there is no real reason behind all this 'coincidences' LMAO...

Thread muted preemptively as i can already feel all the fake challengers claiming their losses on cheaters (spoiler alert, they are bronze and they lost because of a smurf playing on their little cousins account, statistically there sould be \~30 people who are actually on challenger on this sub)

Edit: HOWW TF is everyone else sooo fucking biased?!! like yall are basicallly saying: "yeah if you wanna play football(soccer) you need to amputate your arm to make sure you don't make an illegal movement but don't worry there are like a million other amputees in the country and their life is only marginally worse so don't worry, it's industry standard"

Also the data in the post implies that they are already able to detect bots & cheaters, so why not ban them? only one of the graphs says it's based on reports, the other ones just basically either make up the data or recorgnize that they are already able to tag the botting accs and decide to not do anything about it... HW bans and IP bans don't require Vanguard. Also the whole thing just IGNORES the fact that there is a whole server (and the best one at that) which requires a literal ID to register to the game, and they somehow decide to show ABSOLUTELY ZERO comparisons on how Korea has (or should have) lower scripter % as a single band should be a lifetime one, even better than hardware or ip which can be replaced..

Also just make TFT a standalone game bruuh let me have AT LEAST ONE THING without having to run Vanguard.

Also funny how many people that 'simply don't care' get so riled up about people that do care, if you don't care just go your way... This is relevant to the game and everyone who plays it, just imagine seeing a post about a certain champ you don't play, would you go to the replies and type 'hmm i don't careee just play yhe other ones'? xddddd

The only justification for this you see is 'every other game does it' and honestly i just can't wrap my head around how you don't understand how that is (a) simply not true & (b) not a real reason to do it.
“In may of 2020 they posted”

So four years ago before the data leak they posted a stat. 

Can you see how fucking dumb you are?
I doubt that that's their intention. They don't need to explain themselves or justify their decision or convince a single person. If they want Vanguard on people's machines as a prerequisite for playing, they'll just enforce it. And 99.9999% of the playerbase is going to install it and won't mind because it doesn't matter.
Like okay, I get the point. But are we really pretending botting isn’t ruining games daily?  If someone gets an account to lvl 30 with bots, sells it to someone else. He goes ranked and gets reported for smurfing/botting it will show up in this statistic. 

Currently playing in plat/emerald elo and not a day goes by without a fresh lvl 30 account on either team.

Not to mention new players. Playing vs ai is almost impossible with how many bots are filling the player base. Same for ranked games. Last season , 200 games in, autofilled adc emerald 2 elo. I get a yuumi support. A bot. In emerald elo. Another 100 games later filled as adc again I’ve gotten a similar bot again. But yuumi was banned. So I’ve gotten Taric, that’s running on yuumi code. Pressing w off cooldown and hugging me all game. 

Yes from what I’ve seen they try to sell the scripting side of things as a big reason. Unless we look at high elo tho, botting is a far worse issue.
It ain’t that deep.
If you think scripting and botting aren't the same level of cheating then you're a moron anyway.

Both ruin the game. 

Consolidating both isn't some "gotcha" moment you think it is...
literally no point to making this post
Your phone spies on you. Facebook spies on you. Snapchat spies on you. They all want to peek and you’ve already let everyone else in why is Riot not allowed? 🤷‍♀️ PUBG, Fortnite, Rainbox 6… they have kernel level anti cheat. Bet you’ve all played one of those at some point and had no idea.
 Botted accounts are a problem that enables scripters because they can just buy a new account if they get banned.

In that context they provided new insight, No?
Lol no vanguard in Mac so i am good
OP sweating cause he’s gonna drop rank when they release vanguard patch 😂
Swear to god the second they implement Vanguard I'm gonna spend my days looking for an exploit, or rather hours, cuz they suck as a company ;)
I simply do not care
Only cheaters, ToS offenders and clueless manipulated idiots are against functional anticheat like Vanguard. Don't like it, don't play it. Riot will not miss you and whales wiil keep spending money.
Trusting Riot to never have a security exploit for the safety of your PC is crazy to me when even Windows has them. Add on to that the fact that they have barely even tried before going straight to Vanguard is disgusting, especially when they are using heavily inflated statistics. There are definitely more cheaters than people realise, but you don't need to jump straight to Kernel AC running 24/7.
Why does everyone hate vanguard? Go look at cs and look what a trust based anti cheat does to a game. League doesnt need too much an anticheat but if it has to have one it better be one like vanguard or easy than vac
Let them kill their game with vanguard
Uninstall complete
Yall worried about a company with Chinene connections stealing your information but the American companies are definitely the ones to worry about. Yall tripping.
Don't care
I personally might not be able to play when vanguard comes. I tried to play valorant, but I was never able to make it work on either of my two PCs and I am not even stupid at tech. Changing bios settings and shit like that shouldn’t be needed to play a video game, and the worst part is that it didn’t even work after that. I literally had to reset my bios the hardware way, because it didn’t like secure boot for some reason and didn’t start with it enabled.
To me the most important statistic is the number of scripters in high elo games, which has increased drastically in the last year or so. The article doesn’t lie about that but instead points out this increase
Go play a game of bots right now then look at your teammates history. It's blatantly rampant and needs to end.
It’s not just about scripters and botters, the amount of times I can remember a cleanse nunu running my game down has still haunted me. If they do that now, they’re hardware banned. Let’s see if they’re willing to risk all accounts just cus ‘not my main idc’. Oh and chance of game cancellation so I don’t even lose the match.
If vanguard stops the Kog maw scripters im down to install it tbh
good
The problem with kernel level anticheat is that it's just cat and mouse, sure it will make the game better for a couple of months but aftet that people will find workarounds. There is no "one size fits all" solution, scripters are just as dedicated as the developers, they will find workarounds iver time weather you like it or not.
I WiLL QuIT ovER vAnguArD “ - the npc
"For you to install vanguard"  
But it's not a choice to install it or not.
I don't care, I can literally turn it off when I'm not playing, and have it on when I am. I'm more than happy to do it to get rid of scripters in my games. LoL population will drop because of drama and however many accounts are bots, but I'll see the rest of you on the battlefield.
The people who did that graph in 2020 probably aren't even there anymore lol. I really don't understand how you think their charts being different from the 2020 charts means they're maliciously manipulating data? How is the fact that they're merging categories of data significant in any way?
I feel like yumi's release would correlate with the reduction in reported bots
what this has to do with jungling?
Botted accounts = smurfs = ruining game quality = bad for the game

scripters = bad for the game

Removing both = great
I don't understand why people complain so much about vanguard, soooo many games have a kernel level anti-cheat they just never told u... take Fortnite for example.
Some points for everyone to see:

1. Not everyone uses the apps you use. Not everyone plays the games you play. We dont all have spyware on our devices

2. Someone having a spyware on their device, doesnt mean that they want to add another one

3. Its very easy for a program to bug out/be exploited. Especialyl when talking about Riot, who is known for their buggy code.

4. People underestimate how easy it is to create and how big of an impact some malicious program can have. For reference, please look at wannacry and xz, which is super recent.

5. Kernel level means having more power than you have on your machine. Your OS, and subsequently vanguard, can make more changes on your PC than you can. Its hard to grasp, but its true. If you arent technical, you dont understand the "kernel" term. Its fine, but dont talk to others about it, cause you are spreading false info.

6. The fact that people are outraged about it doesnt mean that they wont quit when time comes. We are trying to change the situation and educate people for similar future dramas.

7. Statistics can be tricky. If you havent taken, lets say, a college degree related to math, dont assume that you know math. Watching yt videos doesnt make your opinion on serious matters more valid. The part about vanguard/statistics is a big issue, but even just the "kernel" part about it, is enough problem.
2016, the glorious days of League# (LeagueSharp).
Free scripting environment where everyone could make their own scripts and sell them for that platform. Damn it was good, damn ot was powerful damn was it tempting. To tempting, i too used it. Never to gain elo though.
Vanguard is safe, but annoying. You have to turn off any kind of virtualization. Had to remove docker just to play Valorant sometimes.
You can't really pull a blog post from 4 years ago and claim that means they're lying about the most recent data.
Yeah I'm taking an indefinite break from League because of this, especially with Gigantic having come back.
Vanguard has the capability to brick your system. Whether it actually does that or not is irrelevant. You never give that kind of access to anything. Also not sure what this would do to the overall popularity of the game. One of the appeals is that it runs on any system, requires low specs and it’s free. So what happens when Mac and Linux users are locked out since they can’t install Vanguard. What happens to users without TPM 2.0? Are riot actually happy to cut a significant percentage of their player base just so they can pretend to be doing something about scripting? They figured out workarounds for Valorant aimbots so it’s only a matter of time until they do the same thing for league. Except not only will we still ve playing against and with scripters. But we will also be forced to grant Ring0 access to an anticheat made by a company owned by Tencent. What a joke.
The problem with extremely invasive anticheat is what happens when someone uses a vulnerability and then has that level of access into people's systems. Look at the apex legends hacker just 3 weeks ago, that was just messing around for attention to get apex to take him seriously about the vulnerability. (Supposedly) If a bad actor finds a vulnerability or socially engineers into having that level of access into people's systems, it's going to be a really bad time.
100% everyone hard complaining about this is scripting. Get fucked. :)
cant wait for reddit mods to delete this post
guys no one cares about you and your data, you're not the most important guys on the planet so stfu
... Op did you even read the article? You really feel the need to say "4 YEARS ago this is the peak cheater number. After that they got attacked so riot source code was leak and the number of cheaters skyrocket for some reason" do you need people to tell you why cheater skyrocket after the code is leaked?
I have very little to hide... And if riot vanguard being in forced lowers the amount of botters and scripters then I'm happy no?
Ok
I want to install vanguard, cheating sucks and it happens, hopefully with this it wont.
Yeah I've been telling people who bother listening to fill out the FBI tip form for espionage, given data laws in China.

And I'm goinna sell my account when Vanguard goes out. Smite 2 should be out at that point.
I have vanguard already installed with valorant but I also realized that those numbers didn't pair with the reality as soon as I read that article (too lazy to check tho). 

I think in all my life playing league (8+ years) I've seen cheaters like twice honestly. And they are literally not a problem.

People have been asking for a reworked client, not an anti-cheat 🫥
The botting accounts isn't made up numbers, it's very much real.
I don't give a fuck and neither should anyone
all champions should be free, you should make like 20 games before unlocking ranked, and there should be no need for hand-leveled accounts.

  
As for botting/scripting, ban them all
Playing on a mac has never felt better, fukc you riot
Do you know who other used kernel level anti cheat? Genshin impact and do you know what happened? Some hacker found a way to exploit the anti cheat and gain full control of the machine.
I am thinking of deleting the game because of it
all this talking about vanguard is pointless. They have said it in the article themselves, if they really wanted your information, they could already take it when you install their game. 

Also, Vanguard does literally nothing while no riot game is running, just fyi
rito lying to us in order to justify BS that they intended to push from the beginning? gasp , ya don't say ! /s

I've been playing since open beta and have never seen a 'hacker' in a match. The only 'scripts' I ever saw were chat ascii macros that people used mostly for humor but sometimes to flame (rarely). Obviously rito was lying...... if this rootkit BS truly goes through, I'm done with rito, in absolute terms.
They just want to push Vanguard because is cheap and they can steal your data or control your pc with it. You can trust them all you want but they don't give proof of them not accessing your data and in the Valorant beta there were massive problems with vanguard interfering and bricking PCs. They also said they got an external advisor to look into it but they haven't published the report. It's all really fishy and I stopped playing league because of this.
Kernel level anti-cheats don’t stop cheating, I’m also in silver and play like 2-3 games a week exclusively with friends. Why do I need to install a kernel level anti-cheat where there hasn’t been one game where I think an enemy is cheating. I’ve played the game on and off since season 4, so I guess this will be the end of my league days
Mine problem with Vanguard is Riots ability to optimalize this shit, i have an friend I have played with since forever and now he will have to leave league because it crashes the pc.
I can't wait to restart my pc every time I feel like playing league
This was obvious to anyone not sucking the company's dick.

Perfect time for Microsoft to revive HotS.
Does vanguard block throttlestop and  predatorsense? Cuz without any of them my pc becomes a grill
[deleted]
I stopped playing that trash game anyway
Dumb fks in the og post defending riot must be acoustic or smth
Shut up man no one cares
Can they just cut the number of level 30 smurfing losers out of emerald and diamond. It makes me sick
They state very clearly in their blogpost, you can install lol with vanguard or dont. The majority of playerbase dont even ever read that post. I doubt they feel the need to coerce you to do anything.
We all know it.
They do it for data and to avoid bot farms so they can save money.

And people excusing them saying Vanguard is good are either idiots or ignorant idiots.

Just look the r/leagueoflegends subreddit where every Vanguard post get instantly deleted
Didn't ask don't care
You will be missed
Bot accounts includes bots continuously running through the intro and coop vs ai just to get to lvl30 so the account can be sold for $2. There are probably a huge, huge number of those.
They probably already had that anyway
my circle must push for more kindred porn agenda.
[deleted]
I am willing to tell them my porn preferences voluntarily... They might incorporate those into future skins :)
You say that like Google Chrome didn’t store all of that info from “Incognito” (like what is the point?)
You haven’t been downloading a ton of Winnie the Pooh Xi Jinping memes for them to steal for their Chinese overlords?????
Until government agency's add to your porn collection with some illegal stuff then arrest you for the content they added and you have no proof thats what happened and are effectively screwed.


All i'd like is for riot to sign a legally binding agreement to never allow any governments access to or use of vanguard for any purpose including data collection, and since according to riot they already don't do that whats the harm in notarizing that legally? none unless your lying.
That can be really useful for them
>  the lead concern that they didn't adress in the post

You are right but that was by design. It was a huge red herring/propaganda piece.

They know what the issue is but they cannot address it. There is no argument to justify giving kernel lvl access  to someone out there. Not to mention rito is INFAMOUS for their spaghetti coding but if we're talking orders on  kernel lvl,  spaghetti coding goes from funny to extremely concerning. Yes.
Giving root level access and the data harvesting rights to Riot, but more importantly Tencent who effectively own Riot is not a good thing and in my opinion a lot of the player base is too immature/naive to understand the implications of what that means.
Yes they just ridicule the serious arguments with picking "Is vanguard a spyware????" And answering that. Trust is hard to build. The game is infested with bots (and scripters) thanks to their inability to keep it secure in the first place. 

If they didn't leak their source code we wouldn't have to go through this. Now they just want us to trust them to not have a similar incident after vanguard. How can I be sure Vanguard won't be leaked or breached or whatever? Their track record doesn't add up.
Riot also got hacked like a year ago, and it was a social security hack, which is the simplest of hacking mechanism lmao
riot could never be breached though right  
RIGHT???

/s
Seriously, Riot is just saying 'oh well if you don't trust us that's unfortunate'. Why would anyone have good reason to trust you lmao? Sure, they could already have your information, but worse than that is that if Vanguard ever has a security exploit (which even Microsoft has had recentlly and numerous times before, or java) a hacker could literally have malware running undetected every time your PC launches.
Why can I already see such a fuck up very easily happening at Riot Games.
Do you trust Nvidia? Because their driver is running on Kernel level
Trust me, if your vanguard gets compromised, your PC already got compromised, doesn't make sense a virus on your PC would attack vanguard when it's already on your PC, it's like believing a virus in your body activates once a vaccine enters your body


Worst virus ever
They made it very clear it has root access from the beginning of vanguard.
This is a BIG LIE, I have been in cheaters forums and there's no such thing as that leak, let alone helping to "decode" the game 


Cheats creators (not cheaters/skids/pasters) are really smart people that understands how to reverse engineer binaries and how to acquire addresses to important information of the game


It's a huge community helping each other in finding pointers and telling other creators how to avoid hitting the honey pots


All cheats works pretty much similar, they find spaces in memory which changes on every update and adapt their already working cheats, and been like that forever, I'm surprised how this community ends to be more toxic than a bunch of nerds trying to prove themselves they can create silly scripts to fool around


The problems are the paid cheats and well, cheaters, but there's a community that does it for fun just to use against AI and flex by themselves
If anything, the fact they got a breach should be a good reason to NOT accept vanguard
Your entire career on youtube was built on propogating false information, creating witch hunts on youtubers, and overall just stirring drama. How are you gonna berate someone for potentially misrepresenting data when twisting the truth is your entite channel 😂.
Riot: 'Yep we didn't do shit for literally 10 years and it got out of hand, we are going the nuclear route, looking for a middle ground is too much work, trust us we won't fuck it up this time like the last 40 ones we tried to introduce new features'

Somehow you: 'hm completly justified behaviour, keep it up, i'm also somehow ignoring the fact that the company knowing the exact % of people scripting literally means they can already detect scripting but choose not to do shit bout it until they release their completly inoucuous(tm) piece of software to detect the already detected cheaters and nothing else(tm)'
Please go to main reddit, go throgh any post about Vanguard and you will realise how many NPCs are bringing up "omg there are over 15% cheaters on high elo", clearly not separating the scripters from botters
except for vanguard in valorant being the reason many people reported their PCs bluescreening for 2 years until riot fixed that lol.
The only people scared are the ones scared of boogeyman words. "Vanguard is TROJAN SPYWARE it has ROOT level KERNAL access" oh so scary.

This is getting added to League regardless. So if someone doesn't want to play League because Riot is adding Vanguard... Just don't play. Vanguard culling some bots and teenage boys sounds like a win win.

Edit: I need self-important Dunning Kruger babies to stop replying with dumb shit like "You need to convince me how Vanguard isn't giving people a backdoor". You missed my point. It is astounding that you read my comment and took from it that I want you to play.
ah yes attending a major means youre a genius and know everything about it
[deleted]
I have engineer friends who are all very concerned about vanguard. Kernel level stuff like this is very concerning. Especially with Riot's "200 years" and spaghetti code.
Comp sci and cyber security have overlapping knowledge, but you can be a comp sci major without cyber security experience.
u/NormanCheetus The amount of degeneracy you showed actually amazed me. I asked a simple question, ignoring you mocking others, on purpose, because strictly disagree with making fun of others instead of helping them. You fail to answer the question, mistakenly assume I have student loans, am broke, dont get the point, dont have media with friends of mine etc. Okay I know YOU dont have friends. That was obvious by the fact that you blocked me, AFTER responding to my reply. And by the fact that you use "let me google that for you".

Anyway. I suspected you knew what an app with kernel level access can do, and wanted to stop you from mocking others, and instead, actually inform them on the matter. But I guess thats too much to ask for from someone that ass-u-me-s.
my pc would collapse because of vanguard every time i opened valorant more than once in a seession and i had to stop playing it because of that. And on top of that its a headache to get rid of it, i even couldnt uninstall it myself and had to pay a specialist to fix it (even tho i am kinda capable with computers)
As if "comp sci friends" is a good reference, those probably never paid attention in any security class.

Vanguard is essentially a chinese malware rootkit, that runs 24/7.
Personal thing. While I acknowledge kernel level anti cheat is bad, I don't actually care enough to boycott my favorite game. I will say Vanguard fucked with my registry and windows files so badly to the point where I couldn't play Valorant without corrupted processes eating my resources to the point of crashing and the only fix being entirely wipe Windows and fresh install.
Counterpoint, Valorant isn’t played on a 14 years old Client that have game breaking bugs every 3 updates (that’s why they like 3 hit passives)
comp sci using windows lol
I mean that’s all there is to it. If you don’t trust it and feels like you’re compromising your device literally just uninstall and don’t play anymore. It’s not that hard?
This a common tactic to manipulate audience perception of data???
“B-but kernel level anti-cheat!”

Sure, okay. Then show Riot you don’t agree, uninstall before it comes out and don’t play.
I dont care about what data they might be trying to take. I care about the source code for LoL being leaked, and vanguard being kernel level. What Rito want to do with the code, and what a 3rd party might want to do with the code is the problem.
What other games use similar programs? I thought it was only valorant.
Wholeheartedly agree. I've been playing in all elos ranging from Silver to Diamond and can count the numbers of scripters I've seen over the years on my hands.

I'm also against any kernel-level anti-cheat on principle. If cheating (scripting and botting) is such a big issue you have other problems that anti-cheat won't solve. For example, how about investigating the accounts that play Yuumi 80% of the time vs bots then go straight to ranked, since we know those are the biggest offenders? But of course, that doesn't play into the infinite money glitch, so they won't. 

If they implement Vanguard as is, I will 100% quit the game and not look back
> Anyone that thinks the bot issue will be solved by Vanguard is just a naive nortAmerican / westEuropean, if you think you can't get close to free labour from thirld world country teenagers with no real job contract you clearly never lived in one of said countries..

This gives the impression that you're not aware of how Riot is using Vanguard. They can effectively ban people based on their hardware, and multiple accounts from the same PC suddenly switching continents is some of the lowest hanging fruit available.
Yeah I agree. I will either need to buy a new rig to do other things on the computer and use my old one just for LoL until it dies. Or just quit. There's no way I'm trusting Riot with this level of access. I wouldn't even trust my government with that...
jsut a quick summary:

a) it's not -just- about the data, and even if it were about the data; no they don't already have acces to the same data they will do when the update rolls out

b) yes this is 100% worse just because this is Riot and not any other company, if you don't wanna see that well just keep living on a bubble where Riot hasn't fucked up as much as they did on the real world

c) No this is not the same as an anti malware running with the same privilege, this is forced upon you to play a game, it's not something you willingly install as a standalone software with full knowledge of what it does

d) Yes it IS worse than BattleEye/whatever because you can't just launch it with the game, it needs to be open since boot and requires secure boot on Win11 so i guess fuck you if you wanna dual boot an OS that doesn't allow for it, you are now forced to downgrade to W10 that will literally be EOL next year

e) they literally made different graphs for reported/alleged cheaters and just 'cheaters' soo they either already can detect cheaters or just made the graphs based on \~vibes\~

f) you can literally just cheat on a mac vm

g) Vanguard will also be forced for TFT which makes no sense at all since if has an Android version which you can play without having to pass a safetynet check

h) "Hmm i portrayed you as the soyjack that gets scared by 'kernel-mode'" -> no i don't give a fuck about something running on ring 0 as long as it is justified, an anti cheat for a game with no cheaters is not, specially when written by the numebr one offender of buggy software which already bricked Windows installations worldwide with the same anticheat on a different game 2 years ago. Having it cosigned by Microsoft just means it won't fuck up in the first 10 minutes with the ideal use case, nothing else, it was already co-signed by microsoft when it premiered on valorant and gave your windows installations BSODs every time you tried to play and also reported as being 4TBs...
> Anyone that thinks the bot issue will be solved by Vanguard is just a naive /u/Bug_Next 

No one actually believes that. That's just the superficial excuse they're using as plausible deniability for this. The actual purpose was to get kernel lvl access & control of your PC, which is insane even if the game were flooded with hackers or bots which it isn't.

....

Solo estan tratando de taparle el ojo al macho. Nada que ver con 'bots' o 'hackers' sino desde un principio lo que querian era tener control de tu PC mediante el programa. Hay muchos beneficios para ellos tener ese acceso..... pinche rito.
You went all over the place with this comment, but I do agree with the majority of what you’re saying.
Yeah this guy cheats.
Well I'd rather see that 3rd world teens get at least some payment even if it's very low (I used to play osrs and was friends with a guy from Venezuela who provided for his family through farming vorkath and selling gold) than some dude with a bot farm earning all of the money.
100% factual from beginning to the end. 0 wrong statements in your whole post. But you can not argue with these people. They are bred for obedience and you can make them suck you off for a wet cube of sugar irl. I am not an amazing player in League but I played off and on for 10+ years from silver in season 3 to below master tier EUW for past seasons. And I have seen like 3 scripters in my life. This stuff is not an issue in League, I have seen one Xerath global hit script in a normal game, an instakilling reksai script and a tryndamere who I was like 99% sure had R activation script to always do it perfectly, that is it in over 10 years of playing
Before you actually call anybody "dumb" maybe you should make sure whether ur not the one that is actually the NPC.

By which i mean: Even the data of leak and their fresh data about cheaters increase isn't correlated - based on second screen i posted you can clearly see that the cheater epidemy according to Riot Games started rising in 2022-07 and rose to maximum by the end of 2022.

Which is weird considering your theory, since data leak have been announced in January 2023... :)

[https://twitter.com/riotgames/status/1617900234734198787?ref\_src=twsrc%5Etfw%7Ctwcamp%5Etweetembed%7Ctwterm%5E1617900234734198787%7Ctwgr%5E%7Ctwcon%5Es1\_&ref\_url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.theverge.com%2F2023%2F1%2F24%2F23569386%2Friot-games-cyberattack-breach-cheats-code-exposed](https://twitter.com/riotgames/status/1617900234734198787?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw%7Ctwcamp%5Etweetembed%7Ctwterm%5E1617900234734198787%7Ctwgr%5E%7Ctwcon%5Es1_&ref_url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.theverge.com%2F2023%2F1%2F24%2F23569386%2Friot-games-cyberattack-breach-cheats-code-exposed)
Well, Vanguard is shit because of performance issues on older machines but yeah even in gold you see level 30 accounts almost everyday.
They already have millions of accounts created. Vanguard will do nothing because those accounts will be selling for the next 100 years.
Imagine fixing the mmr so that hard stuck players from any elo don't need to get a new account to climb. Sounds kinda cringe ngl, fixing the game would require more than one brain cell so just put vanguard on everything.
Stop making a point, about someone you dont know. There are tons of people who dont use such apps. Also, the amout of power a kernel level program has, is the same as the power your OS has. Snapchat can spy on you, but it cant take over your phone. A kernel level anticheat you easily make your pc unusable. The problem lies in that people dont realize how easy it is for such things to happen. Go google "xz linux". We just dodged a bullet with that one, since all servers run linux, and a major rootkit was implanted in xz, and found it early, ACCIDENTALLY.
1. They have already tried a lot of things. From the sound of it, they currently are employing AI on server side, Packman to hide how their current anticheat works, their current anticheat which analyzes processes, and then some regions have a custom anticheat e.g. LPL with their APM cap on the game. The next step is a kernel level anti-cheat, and they already have a functioning one. 
2. It was funny, because Vanguard also refuses to play when you have an actual virus on your PC. In a way, it also works as a virus detector. The security team at Microsoft in fact learned from Vanguard how to protect their systems better. Vanguard first banned drivers that are known to be a security risk, and Windows followed suit. 
3. You can always uninstall it, or just make it stop running until you need to have it ran for the game. It requires a restart, but that's it.
[deleted]
Because valorant is free of cheaters. Oh wait.
Because it's owned by tencent and americans hate china, it's simple as that. The exact same thing was happening with the soviets during the cold war, people were believing in all kinds of stupid conspiracy theories that later on turned out to be false.
For me? I don't have the best pc so I don't want their bullshit clutter anticheat running even when I'm not playing LoL. But if you close it you have to restart your fucking pc to play LoL. I'd rather go play something else than have to restart my pc every time I play the game if I keep their digital aids closed.
Yeah man Valorant died right?
See you in 2 weeks buddy.
That’s what everyone said with mythic items but ok
Agreed. I am not instaling it on main main PC, might do break from league and comeback to it only (if) i get second gaming PC
You can continue uninstalling every other multiplayer game aswell then, they all use kernel level anti cheat...
You can probably reach out to their support for this.
Maybe you are playing in low elo, I've seen a few scripters in diamond and master+. Scripters are scripting and obviously will be plauing on higher elo since they win more.
I remember that they are willing to pay anyone (and it's not a small sum) that finds something that proves stealing data or mining bitcoin in Vanguard. And it's not a small sum. And be prepared, more and more fps' will have kernel lelvel anticheats in the future because anticheats like Vac or EAC are just bypassed with ease.
Oh no you have to 5 seconds for windows to boot. Poor you. The misery
You can send a support article. But from looking at it, it seems like even the dev of Throttlestop recommends you switch to something else like Quick CPU. (status 2020) The reason at that time is that Throttlestop uses a dll that is a known security risk. 

I recommend you reach out to the Riot support and ask them this question though.
They said "There isn't yet as much tooling on OSX for script development, although the "need" is growing. For now, Mac won't have Vanguard, but we've still got a few bullets in the chamber for when cheaters inevitably try to exploit this.".
No Vanguard on Mac, until it proves to be necessary
Vanguard is literally going to cut down on the bot accounts.
xD
😂🤣🔥that was a good one. Definitely got some air coming out of my nose. +1
People are sitting here like they already haven’t done multiple things to compromise their data 🤣
Good thing he didn't see the last line "with yordles"
gragas skin’s incoming
Still waiting on pool party ahri with SKTT1 tummy Tatoo
They literally cant. Riot is owned by tencent. Tencent is compelled by Chinese law to hand over all personal data to the Chinese government
50 million yordle skins incoming 
A game company they very recently had to remove a champ from pro play due to prevalence of bugs, is asking for kernel level access...
Didn’t they also have their source code from a phishing scam, like a year ago?
Literally every anticheat runs at kernel now adays bruh and most have some sort of ties to china already, plus if they want your stufff they can just already get it with the current league client
>You are right but that was by design. It was a huge red herring/propaganda piece.

Teens on Reddit really need to start figuring out what words mean before using them.
Yes, they literally explains they need it on boot so they could verify that everything it's legit from the boot process, so signatures and every piece from your OS has not been tampered


I literally don't understand if you haven't read the blog post or you're just being biased
Well your opinion is very wrong, 2 Simple reasons
1) yes tencent own Riot, but Riot works indipendently, tencent has an important role only as publisher for china market.
2) with a user level program Like lol they already can access every private data you have, you dont need a kernel level software
''The game is infested with bots (and scripters)'' are you smurfing or bronze?
Compared to TF2 and CSGO leak, league code got never leaked and riot NEVER got concerned about it for a reason


It would been so sweet to see that code, it would led to classic league client
Here at Riot we take security very seriously! 

/s
you people act like that can only happen with riot, every company can have security breaches and there are a myriad of programs running kernel level on your pc that companies might not even tell you about, it’s not that big of a deal that riot also jumps on it
It's also a driver. I have to have it usethe hardware in the system.


Versus.. to play a game.
Its a driver. Same as windows' own drivers etc. Alao nvidia is more trustworthy to me at least.
Are you demened. Im not saying someone would attack my computer and the vanguard. Im saying that theyd attack some riot vanguard servers and through that fully compromise every single system running that shit at kernel. Fuck off riot plant
Does that mean you don't except any Google programs? Also didn't Microsoft JUST have a security  breach? I guess you don't use anything from Microsoft either.
Wow someone with an IQ above room temp, i think i'm hallucinating
Then... Don't. Just don't play League.

All the information has been disclosed to you.

You can use two eyes and see how bad the cheating and botting situation is in League. Vanguard is being added regardless.

So if you don't feel the horse already left the barn on the information storage, what are you still doing playing League?

I assume you only feel **mildly** protective of your parent's CC info? Enough to LARP as a programmer and security expert on Reddit, but not enough to stop playing League?
Some players care more about the integrity of the game than the integrity of their systems I guess. 🤣
Wow. I never did any of those things lmfao. I live in your ill mind rent free for a decade
Read the post moron. They explained how they get the number of scripters and why it won't work as a long term solution.
Honestly, look at CS2, middle grown is not easy to find.


But Valve are willing to wait until they manage to develop reliable Anti-cheat that doesn't require Kernel level access, the reaction from the playerbase is of course bad, as there are cheaters everywhere, since Valve disabled their AI based Anti-cheat after a lot of false bans, and they're still working on it.
This IS the middle ground bro
Oof, you really fucked up on reading their post. You didn't need to out yourself like that.
Riot: heres the answer to the scripting problem. Valorant users have been using it for 4 years and there are no note worthy problem.

You: omg its NUCLEAR they are ruining the game and my INTEGRITY nooooo riot is worst nooo evezything is ruined huhu
Doesn't change the OP is completely wrong. There's more scripters because of what you said about them and the graphs back it up
How about you read the devblog you cretin before you post stuff like this.
>  looking for a middle ground is too much work

I agree with you. You'd think with over 2,000 employees at rito HQ alone they could assign a couple of guys to spectate master-tier ranked matches and punish the accounts that are involved with the supposed issue. It's not like there are that many master-tier ranked matches anyway..... compared to the rest I mean.

My only point of contention with your claims is that they don't care about 'the issue'. They just want an excuse to get a rootkit on your PC and 'MUH HACKERZ'  is what they rolled with.
Right, but again that isn't "data manipulation", that is these so-called NPC's inability to read the data. Riot isn't fudging the numbers to paint a different picture and you are actually pointing out exactly where both examples show they are different data sets. People interpreting them wrong doesn't mean Riot is manipulating data it means those people are stupid.

You actually prove your callout for data manipulation wrong in your own post and so it seems like you are just using that term to spread misinformation and stir up emotions which is lame.
Some of us never got our fix even after >2 years :P
The funniest thing to me as well is most people complaining probably use TikTok religiously as if it’s not a worse version of Vanguard
well last time i used vanguard my pc would crash whenever I opened valorant more than once, and had to stop playing valorant because of that. I really really dont want to stop playing league.
Question for you, non teenage boy. What is a kernel (you even misspelt it)? Do you even know, or do you just follow along with what you read on the internet?
Dude. You do realize that league is like the biggest game in the world and the consequences of a data breach or nesting scrapers in the root would easily go straight to the national level like tik tok. Like there is literally no reason for malpractice, the benefits are so limited and the cons are essentially the complete collapse and likely banning of all riot titles in the US let alone the EU. 

Y’all seriously gotta reflect on the actual situation rather than your fears and feelings. We have millions of people actively observing and scrutinizing vanguard, anything would be discovered immediately or in short manner, but surely at some point. 

So let’s think. What’s easier? Releasing a new ahri + friends skinline or the complete and utter destruction of essentially the entire Riot Games universe, every data and code team member would immediately lose all credibility, allowing such a tremendous violation to go through would nuke their future opportunities for anyone that’s not a EX-Blizzard board member.
Yeah, because people here is gaslighting themselves in not understanding that if your vanguard installation got compromised, then your PC was compromised in first place
« 200 years » is about balancing the game and the spaghetti code has nothing to do with the AntiCheat.
Does your friend not play other multiplayer titles?
Easy anti cheat has kernel level access, yet nobody complains here.
... I don't get how riot old code that they make when they are just a group of dude with no idea about programming and riot employees making stupid statements on twitter mean anything to this conversation. Why not you mention riot Zed too if you wanna go off tangent?
Are they also concerned with the other 100+ games (almost all modern games) who run it (good portion of which are also tied to china) or is riot their only problem?
Which has any impact on vanguard how...?
Believe it or not even people who know a lot about computers don’t want to have to find shitty plugins for everything they do like on Linux.
Well, yeah. That's why i'm doing it when Vanguard hits.
Im addicted please help
Writing in the graph you are trying to trick people with that you are refering to something else?

If you have no control over the output of data and definitions perhaps, but riot writes data and definitions.

If riot want's to be sneaky they can just redefine what a scripter is (anyone that uses code that is not part of the lol client to control their champion or a more technical version of that) and print the graph OP is crying about without adding (or a Bot) at the end.  
If riot tried to lie, they did an intentionally bad job at it.
>Sure, okay. Then show Riot you don’t agree, uninstall before it comes out and don’t play.

I will. No game warrants anticheat that has more rights than your OS. And certainly not one thats always on, from a company that has had multiple breaches.
I absolutely understand the worry about the source code. But when it comes to the Kernel-Level aspect: That's pretty much industry standard for competitive online games. Riot is just late to the party, as they often are.
Vanguard didn't get leaked. They store Vanguard separately, and only very few people even have access to it.
> I care about the source code for LoL being leaked

Seriously?
Only Valorant uses Vanguard, but a lot of anti cheat software are similarly invasive ( due to them having to be sure that you're not running cheat processes in the background )

It's similarly why anti cheat software like Easy Anticheat are criticized as well. Even when they're invasive - they don't tend to stop dedicated hackers anyway if they really wanted to mess with things, so this vulnerability isn't even a perfect trade off.
Pretty much every competitive online game. All Blizzard games, CS Go, PUBG, Arma, Rianbow 6 games, Fortnite, Ark, every EA game, Tarkov, fall guys, Ghost Recons, all CODs, all Bungie games, the list goes on and on.
realistically, any anti-virus/anti-malware product does the exact same thing.

so even ignoring games, people have been installing software like this for decades, yet some how now this is an issue.......
Genshin impact use kernel level anti cheat and it was a disaster some hacker found a way in and gain kernel level control thx to the anti cheat
Among others: 

PUBG, 
Fortnite, 
Fallguys, 
Halo, 
Rainbow Six Siege, 
Apex Legends,
all Editions of COD Modern Warfare,
most Battlefield titles
and many more

In other words: Loads of online games use similar programs that run at kernel level. BTW - Riot can already access lots of your private  data and information anyways. Consider checking out Necrits video on the matter.
You're checking Yuumi but they've already said that the best Champs to script with are like jhin, zeri ,kalista.
Good riddance then
Isn't the hardware identifiying linked to TPM 2.0? If you play on Win 10 you can just run Vanguard without TPM 2.0.
Cool how does it solve scripting or people abusing virtual machine to run league on mac os? News for you it does nothing to solve it. BS change just a disgusting spyware for your pc
On E) you kept posting that but how companies fight bots is they detect them and then let them run still so that they can get more data and detect the other types of hacks and then they do ban waves. So they can get a good idea of how many hackers and scriptures and bitters there are but they can’t just insta ban everyone as that would give the hackers better data on how to fix it. With vanguard if they do a ban wave even if the hackers make new hacks they will lose a huge portion of customers and the remaining ones will have to go through hoops to get back into the game. I’m not sure if I’m for or against vanguard and I do think a lot of points against it seem good but this point specifically I think is based on a wrong assumption of how companies fight against hackers.
If companies were so desperate to “get root access to your pc” I think more of them would be doing the same shit lmfao.

Use the 4 braincells inside your skull for something other than sniffing your own farts
Yeah dude spamming League games for weeks to get 5 dollars is very worth it.
I honestly can’t be bothered with that argument anymore. I played on a hp laptop from 2008 up until season 8 or something. So I have sympathy for people that can’t get more than that. But back then to get a laptop that has a gpu started at like 600$+. Same for desktop pcs. 500 at minimum for a entry level Maschine that is worth it to spend money on at all. Today I can build a new and athlon build for less than 200€ (I would go with a free or really cheap case). For most people it’s probably even cheaper since they can simply upgrade ram and cpu for ~100€ if needed. In an age where even the most expensive NVIDIA cards struggle with day one tripple A titles , I just can’t take that argument seriously. 

There are enough reasons against vanguard, if anything their 32bit support that got yeeted this year shows that old maschines that can’t handle it are a tiny minority.

I don’t mean to be rude or anything, if I come off like that I’m sorry. I mean this comment in a neutral way where I share my thoughts, not argue against yours.
This entirely depends on how well they utilise vanguard. Vanguard had the power to literally see that you are using an account you haven’t leveled yourself and you have other accounts on this same computer you regularly use. If we now add their improved ranking system Smurfs should either be sorted to their rank in less than 10 games or they will ban that account quickly if it is used to act like an asshole. They can even apply chat ban + honor drop to their main account / all accounts that share the same hardware id. And just to point it out before someone tries to make an argument, Korea uses your id tied to your account, so there is no reason to use hardware id that’s tied to a gaming cafe
That is also an issue. You played bad last month or year, good luck recovering that account. It also feels bad to get a new account in any game because the time and money you spent to unlock characters and skins all go to waste just for the sake of broken ranked system.
Can’t really agree to that, maybe it’s your expectations. +40/-20 isn’t how the game is supposed to work. I’m like 300 games deep learning midlane this season at 49% winrate and I still get ~+/-25 every game. I haven’t bothered with lp gains much this season bcs they kind of fixed the issue from past seasons.

And even in the past seasons I managed to climb from silver 4(400 games 48% , +12/-24) all the way up to plat 4 without ever reaching plat 4 before ever. (That was before emerald was a thing).
Its been in valo since release and it clearly works there and its clearly not malware
Tell me you don't know how anti cheats work without telling me you don't know how anticheats work. There is always a way to beat the anti cheat. The problem for the cheaters is the cost and effort. As article states, they get banned, they buy a new account for pennies and do it again because of botted accounts. With Vanguard comming in, botted accounts will still be there, but in a much much lower supply so it's gonna be more expensive to get back in the game. That's one thing. Another one is cheating will be more difficult as they will need more expensive equipment in order to bypass Vanguard.    
The fight against cheaters never ends and you can never have 0% cheaters. [This video](https://youtu.be/RwzIq04vd0M?si=IvhEBVhWiCRUc5kX) explains how it works and how people manage to bypass it.
No anti cheat can 0% cheaters, but compare it to cs. Even if i prefer cs as a game valorant has exponentially lower cheater rates. Dont look at the neighbour and think his grass is greener. Vanguard is invasive but is much more effective than their counterpart. Most cs players would want a kernel anti cheat cuz it’s has become unplayable with that many cheaters
It takes about 15-20 seconds to restart....
You can opt in for activating it only when you play lol toh. I did that with val and it worked
That's the point, they don't need to manipulate data xd, everyone will end up with Vanguard installed
Games already off my pc buddy. And i am extra lazy when installing/updating shit
Not everyone's willpower is that weak. Also trusting Riot to never have a meaningful security exploit in Vanguard is crazy to me.
Nah. This time it's different.

At least for me it is. I'm not coming back..... never thought the most extreme threat to my PC would come from rito itself.
Be sure to change your tinfoil hat at least once every 3 days


But even if you use one for more than 3 days you should most definitely replace it every shower
Trying to get a non botted actual helpful advice from the league support team is nigh impossible. Also there is nothing you can do if your computer doesn’t start up with secure boot and can’t even get into the bios while it is a requirement for the program. 

You can’t solve a software problem if you can’t get to the software. Only option was to clear cmos and honestly I am not going to try again.
**NOT** giving kernel lvl access/control to rito  vs '*TRUST ME BRO*' ? hmm. Tough call.
EAC is a kernel level anti cheat too. But at least it's not running all the time like Vanguard. And what I'm saying is they can do that, not that they will, but that software gives them the tools to do whatever they want without supervision on your computer. And on the Valorant beta they did just that accessing processes and bricking systems because of Vanguard accessing monitoring software and drivers.
Yes It is unfathomable for me to reboot my computer I might actually die
I only gave that furry website my social security number, it's anonymous.
Yea it’s the same people that complain that the government is always listening yet carry their phone around 24/7 with a microphone, gps tracking, and video recording on the daily. I think some people just wanna be more important than they are.
Might have looked up Vex once or twice, but that's between me and Riot.
Oh yeah baby
Reksai too
Vanguard doesn't have 15 years worth of technical debt.
A game company that has an entire game built on spaghetti code and a broken client should definitely be allowed to deal with sensitive root access on peoples machines.
Literally no correlation
Literally every program you use has tons of bugs only difference is Riot is pretty open about them and the community voices them alot more because they want them fixed.
Shhh we aren't supposed to remember that
> /u/FrogVoid 

.... and that would make installing a rootkit better, how exactly?
“You already fucked up your system, why not fuck it up some more?” is quite the take I must say.
just said you don't understand the difference lol
I wasnt speaking from experience, riot's post said their numbers were high. I'm just trying to point out the fact that it is their fault if the cheater/botter numbers are high in the first place. Now they shift the burden to players w vanguard.
How many 3rd party kernel level apps are you running?
People are still installing drivers for printers which are notorious for beeing shit lol
You have to Install the Nvidia Driver... To play games
Tbh most anticheats such as easy anti cheat are kernel level. 
If they wouldn't be they would be useless because the cheats themselves can go to kernel level because scripters really don't care. 

The sad reality is, to have a chance against cheats in multilayer titles you will need kernel level access.
Its all about perception, you see, Nvidia just Had to patch 8 serious vulnerabilities in March.
It doesn't work like that, it's way feasible exploiting someone's PC than doing whatever you believe you think they could take from "Vanguard servers"...It's so silly ignorant people can give opinions on subjects they don't understand at all just because they have seen some clickbait videos on youtube/tiktok 🤦

I really would lecture how wrong you're, but at the end of the day, haha bad riot sheep
There's a massive difference between companies that provide essentially the backbone to modern computing and a video game
Not much that require kernel-level access at startup no. And even if I did, that would not be a good argument to have MORE of these
Riot: Has terribly trained personnel that gets baited by a phishing email, reasonable to assume it contained a furry pic so the Rioter just could not resist the urge to click. Huge leak and security breach ensues that compromises your privacy, personal data and makes the scripting and botting problem worse.
Your solution is “Hey lets give those people unconditional control over my pc and every single piece of information about my virtual identity and activity” surely that will fix botting, scripting lel
HMMM OTHER THINGS ARE ALREADY SHIT SO WE MUST ACCEPT EVERYTHING TURNING IN TO SHIT WITHOUT ASKING ANY QUESTIONS I LOVE SHITTT I LOVE SHITT EVERYTHING ELSE IS SHIT SO THIS THING THAT WASNT SHIT TURNING IN TO SHIT IS OKAY HMMM I LOVE EATING SHIT HMMM IM SOOOO CLEVER BECAUSE I DETECTED THAT OTHER THING IS ALREADY SHIT SO THIS THING THAT WAST SHIT BEING NOW SHIT MUSNT UPSET YOU HMMM IM SO CLEVER CHECKMATE YOU CHEATER HMMM

>basically your reply
You know who vanguard fucks the most right? Linux users. You know what linux users have in common? They know how their computer works, and they deny Microsoft/Google/Apple apps as much as possible. 

Also, lets say i am a windows user. Why would i want a company, completely new to kernel level programs, known to be bad with code, also have root level access? Why would I MORE than double my concerns? When Riot can make sylas or viego not bug on every patch, then maybe you can trust them a bit more.
You're writing this from an operating system which has been hacked, using a processor that has been hacked, with ram that has been hacked.

Your glass house must be in shambles.

There is no validity in your statement, as any software made by humans will be hacked by other humans. The question is only - how long will it take?
CS2 is built different, their hackers are disgusting lmao, games that are popular amongst Russians are always going to get the nastiest of hackers, Russians are built different
Ironically they say in the article and posts thst they do manually go through a decent amount of games.
You have some point, but then again i would argue they had written the article on purpose this way in order to manipulate mass.
Basically every other social media is worse than TikTok lol. They just don’t sell data to the American government
Tiktok cant decide to make a video of you if it feels like it
[Oh man, that's a tough one!!](https://letmegooglethat.com/?q=kernel+anti-cheat)

The entire point was making fun of people who are scared of buzzwords because you have the information you Googled from terms you saw regurgitated from Reddit.

You missing that point is fucking astounding. What is your damage that it went over your head? Because honestly the point was pretty clear.

>Do you even know, or do you just follow along with what you read on the internet?

Jesus Christ you are almost self aware, lol.
wait till u/2FastH3R0 learns about data breaches on things like Cloudflare, Google, Facebook etc.

In case you missed the point, databreaches happen. Normal people just dont learn about them cause they are not on the news, but on tech yt channels at best.
You could still see it as Riots general work ethic. Like they knew that their current Anti Cheat system wasn't up to the task and would only get worse and yet didn't do anything for years (that is specifically covered in the blog post).

Yes, the people working on those 2 things are (i very much hope so at least) completely different divisions, but i'm not exactly confident in them designing anything well and future proof since Riot has an apparent history of pushing problems ahead of them until it becomes absolutely necessary to do something.
Yes but they both are reasons to not want to trust Riot with that level of access. And spaghetti code directly links to how much knowledge you have of your systems and how likely you are to detect security concerns in said systems.
Most of them don't play modern games for that reason. And the ones who do usually do it on a system separate from their code.
Its not "run it". Vanguard is Vanguard. A different AC is a different AC. 

Faceit for example has their own kernel level AC, but I trust them. Also, their AC works. They get paid by users who play Faceit in order to have a better experience. They have the incentive to make their service work and be trustworthy. I will still only play it in a separate drive.

Riot, shows clear signs of incompetency, they are tied to an authoritarian party, and have showed they dont intend to keep the game clean. They might as well see banning accounts as an income stream, as most people will just make a new account, and buy skins all over again.
It’s the fact that, coupled with Vanguard having Kernel level access, the Client breaking could cause it to have some interaction with Vanguard that can be abused by a good coder

Vanguard having Kernel level access means any hole would give the hacker the ability to access so many files on your device that would otherwise be inaccessible since it’s blocked by the user privileges access
I'm pretty sure I've seen stats that the majority of programmers actually use OSX too. In North America at least.

I used to rock Ubuntu, but it's not really worth it for full stack dev.
!remindme 6 months
You won’t be missed
No, you misunderstand. This specific thing, maintaining and combining definitions to skew a graph, is a common tactic. It’s so you don’t question it, but also obscures data. Because otherwise people would ask what a “cheater” entails
Do you not play any online games? 90%+ use kernel level anti cheat. You will have to quit gaming on PC entirely.
Ayeee, I got news for you buddy! A vast majority of live games you probably have played before, *already* use a kernel level anti cheat!

Do you recognize any of the following? "EasyAntiCheat, PunkBuster, BattlEye, nProtect GameGuard, Xigncode3, and EQU8". Then you have, at one point or another, had a kernel level anti cheat active on your PC!

What I do agree with you though, is the always on part. There really is no ethical reason that doesn't invade the consumer's dwindling privacy by having the anti cheat always on and not just having it on when the client is launched.
This guy cheats.
So youre fine with EasyAntiCheat, PunkBuster, BattlEye, nProtect GameGuard, Xigncode3, and EQU8, Ricochet, EA AntiCheat and Defense Matrix. But vanguard is where you draw the line?

The evil chinese steal my data :( i only trust american spyware, they have my best interests in mind.

Idk maybe stick to singleplayer games then
Oh i get the kernel level stuff, (although just on ranked might be nice so people can still play that object to it). For me it is just that it got full leaked, so many issues could be found in the LoL source code, id hate to think what could happen if vanguard also made its way into someone that wanted to do harm. Although it running on startup is a little gross too, should ideally just run on game startup.
Hardly any Anti Cheat software requires you to run it on startup though.

Riot claims that it's fine because the Vanguard driver won't be requested until you actually start League, it is still active and running in the background. Or so they say, because apparently someone already tested it with a program and it still got requests, though i can't verify the validity of that.
This was in part the dev post, and also in part the blog post they did post leak.
I trust windows defender more than tencent vanguard yes.
I think the main difference is that Vanguard is always running in the background while other anitcheats are only running when you start the game.
Yuumi is used for getting the accounts to level 30 I guess.
I'm not talking about scripting, but about botting. We can see from the data scripting isn't an issue, botting is
Yeah, DMA spoofing to get around HWID bans in Valorant apparently still works under Windows 10 but not 11 due to TPM 2.0. There was a useful YouTube video I found discussing how cheaters currently bypass Vanguard, wish I had a link on-hand.
If it pays better than a normal job you could get yeah. I know Venezuela a minimum wage job for someone without an education at one point you earned more farming vorkath in osrs and selling the gold for USD than doing a minimum wage job.
The mmr is made to find your rank and keep you there. The possibility of you improving or not playing so becoming worse does not exist. So the way to fix it is just make 12 splits per year and reset the rank as much as possible and hope nobody notices. The fact these guys have no idea how their game works or the more likely one they are afraid to touch some of the core systems cuz it will make a mess with their legacy code and with the balancing of the game and create so much more work is just so sad. The way to fix it is just try and put some flex tape when it leaks but at the moment we are in a boat made entirely of flex tape and it's not looking good.
I used to be in gold 4 for a year, then had a dramatic 36 wins out of 40 games with +13 and got in my plat promos but then got on a losing streak with -17 and got back to gold 3 in a few days. Then I bought my first botted account and instantly got to plat and a few months later diamond. After getting stuck in diamond for a bit I got a new account and hit masters. The problem is that once the mmr settles not even 40 consecutive wins can fix it. And the current solution is a lot of soft resets, so by the time your mmr starts to visibly impact your climb they just reset it a bit. This means that it’s always to some extent over boosting fresh accounts and then holding back old ones, just less noticeably. I believe it is still easier to just buy a new account and outclimb your main in a couple of weeks and that’s the reason for the huge amount of smurfs. Yes, some are just bored and wanna troll some games or feel good dominating worse players but most of them just want to climb.
[deleted]
It was in Valorant from the beginning. That's a big difference
>There is always a way to beat the anti cheat.

Yes that is my point. Good job.
The only ones ring 0 anticheat affects, are legitimate players.
Didn't know, if you can only have it on while playing that makes it a lot better
Mine got stuck on "Updating" forever until enabled Vanguard to run all the time, I couldn't even install the game.
Hey everyone! This guy says he quits league because of Vanguard!! so daring, what an example..
So you don't play any other online games? 90%+ of them use kernel level anti cheat.
>  This time it's different.


Sure™
But I use organic tinfoil?
Not accepting kernel level access from a game is being a complotist now? Good god. I never see good arguments from ppl like you defending vanguard
Oh no, not THE KERNEL lvl access!!!

You are aware it's just a buzzword right? It's used the same way as the scary RADIATION to make clueless people afraid of atomic power stations, 5G or even microwaves and smartphones.
I understand that, hence why there's a system requirements for Vanguard and obviously they tweaked a few things to not do that. With EAC being kernel level anti cheat, look at Apex Legends and what cheater can do in that game or atleast what used to be happening. Wallhackin or aimbot at first, then they managed to get speedhack, reloading when you shoot at the cheater, DDoS'ing the game server. All of this because it launched when you launched the game, not the system so it didn't prevent anything. That's why in their blog they mention that it would be difficult to have an on and off switch for it. Additionally, if you think that you're done playing Valorant or League for foreseeable future, unninstal Vanguard. Easy to do and your PC doesn't have something running all the time.
You can simply close vanguard after you've done playing League.
Im sure Baddragon keeps your data "secure"
The government definitely doesn't record your microphone and check your video recordings. Even ignoring the fact it isn't possible why would they want to? I think people really overestimate how interested governments and businesses are with them. You don't say anything remotely worthy of spending a real person's time to go through audio and video recordings of you.
Tristana had no business being that hot.
A game company with a game that has 15 years of tech debt. Tell me you dont understand software development more please
> /u/TatteredVexation 

Astroturfing shill.
Right, there are tons of burglaries even with the doors closed so I should leave my door open

What is your experience in software engineering and cybersec? From what kind of multi-decade infosec background does this enlighted thought come?
? If you actually read the blog about Vanguard they talk about it
This was the biggest red flag for me, if they are confident the 1 in every 10 games statistics is accurate it means they have detected them... Why didn't they do anything about it all that time again?
Windows? Intel/amd microcode? Bios? Others anticheat? Virtualisation software?
My ASUS motherboard installs automatically an "app updater" from bios ROM without my consent and do you think I would bitch or people bitch about it?
or any other thing i want the hardware to do. There are applications that use graphics cards beyond games.

Even when that is all that it is used for. Nvidia is still in the hardware business and has different incentives and monetization structure. So while they could, they wouldn't gain much. They also have waaay more incentive to keep their drivers secure.
bro i have worked in cyber security 😭
KERNEL LEVEL ACCESS!

My brother in Christ, it does not matter if Microsoft and Google have access to your PC on start-up. You aren't saving your personal info as "SEECRIT PASSWURDz.pdf". You give your CC info out on websites every day.

Google is literally being sued into deleting data collection from Incognito browsers, but you still feel safe with your Gmail account.
Are you aware game developers do not work on vanguard, but security researchers?


That's like complaining to skin developers about game client code
That's not what they're saying. They're pointing out that people already clearly don't care. And I bet we'll see in a couple months that people still don't when vanguard releases and the player base drops by less than a percent. People go on and on about Internet security then use the same password on every website they know just because it's convenient. This talk of "riot can't be trusted", while true, just seems ironic to some because most of them are using other companies who also have fucked up in the past
Vanguard it's not new y'know
The devs who make champs aren't the same devs who are making vanguard. This is like saying "why should I trust Google with all my personal information if YouTube videos don't load"
FaceIT doesn't get nearly as much cheating, because they have Kernel level access software. 

Valve could make one that's even better than that. 


But they don't want to go that route.
rito says a lot of things.
They do go manually, and by manually they mean they set up the bot manually and let it do nothing but ban “dirk” and “boobies”
It’s sad how wrong you are. 

Nothing I say would ever convince you otherwise, but I’d suggest doing a bit of digging on what exactly TikTok collects (and from what sources because it’s more than just user info from TikTok).
In terms of data collection TikTok is no better than X or Meta or any other company for that matter.

As for your other point, you’re right, TikTok doesn’t do that. Instead they sell data to the Chinese government. If you can’t see how that is much worse than selling data to the American government, you’ve got a problem.
I am almost a CS graduate.... I dont need the let me google that for you link, but okay that is a bit funny.

No point got over my head. I am willing to believe that you know what you are talking about, but you still didnt answer. People being fear mongered by buzzwords are just as bad for the society as ones mocking them, without having the technical background.

So once again. Do you know what a kernel is?
Lil bro that’s not how root kernel integration works but go off. Come at me with ego without knowing shit? Wait till you actually understand what data collection is and what a data breach actually means LOL. Like check yourself dude
Faceit is free, you have a paid option but it isn't necessary, as to trust, why trust one kernel but not the other? It's the same level access and can cause the same amount of damage if breached. One is a multi million dollar company (if not billion) and the other is a tournament service for servers. Vanguard doesn't work? Valo has 1% cheaters. That's among the lowest in the industry (if not the lowest). As for "Tied to authoritarian party " no, tencent owns a good chunk of riot but Riot isn't owned by them nor do they make decisions about the company.
When you say “abused by a good coder” it quickly becomes obvious that you have no clue what you’re saying lol
I don't mean to be presumptuous or arrogant, but you don't understand how this stuff works. Vanguard is a potential issue and attack vector. Anyone denying that is at best wilfully ignorant. Im not arguing otherwise.

But it has nothing to do with League. They are seperate entities. A "good coder" has as much chance of getting into vanguard through chrome as he does through league. If you already had Vanguard installed for Valorant, there is no suddenly greater risk due to it being activated for league.

All thats changed is they added a little "Don't allow users to connect to league servers unless valorant driver is running" check when opening the client.
How about you delete this and not be misleading…. Don’t talk about things you don’t understand…
I will be messaging you in 6 months on [**2024-10-12 21:31:14 UTC**](http://www.wolframalpha.com/input/?i=2024-10-12%2021:31:14%20UTC%20To%20Local%20Time) to remind you of [**this link**](https://www.reddit.com/r/Jungle_Mains/comments/1c23dje/riot_is_manipulating_data_for_you_to_instal/kzanlt5/?context=3)

[**CLICK THIS LINK**](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose/?to=RemindMeBot&subject=Reminder&message=%5Bhttps%3A%2F%2Fwww.reddit.com%2Fr%2FJungle_Mains%2Fcomments%2F1c23dje%2Friot_is_manipulating_data_for_you_to_instal%2Fkzanlt5%2F%5D%0A%0ARemindMe%21%202024-10-12%2021%3A31%3A14%20UTC) to send a PM to also be reminded and to reduce spam.

^(Parent commenter can ) [^(delete this message to hide from others.)](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose/?to=RemindMeBot&subject=Delete%20Comment&message=Delete%21%201c23dje)

*****

|[^(Info)](https://www.reddit.com/r/RemindMeBot/comments/e1bko7/remindmebot_info_v21/)|[^(Custom)](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose/?to=RemindMeBot&subject=Reminder&message=%5BLink%20or%20message%20inside%20square%20brackets%5D%0A%0ARemindMe%21%20Time%20period%20here)|[^(Your Reminders)](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose/?to=RemindMeBot&subject=List%20Of%20Reminders&message=MyReminders%21)|[^(Feedback)](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose/?to=Watchful1&subject=RemindMeBot%20Feedback)|
|-|-|-|-|
Well, neither will league be missed.

So it's a win win, really.
This guy statistics. 

You can't do what Riot did. Most people will not be able to discern what exactly the graphs mean and will just believe the explanations.

Ergo - Riot is deceiving people.
Except that the 2 graphs were not part of the same article.

There has been no fake trend they created. All argumentation is based on the second graph.

In adition if you want to stop people asking "what is a cheater" by writing the definition in your graph, you defeat the point of your obfuscation.

Also the article this refers to later shows a massive increase in the number of cheaters in high elo as well. Since I have strong doubt's many bot's play in master+ Elo, the graph does not apear to manufacture a trend that does not exist in reality.
Weird how other online games have an anticheat that can run through wine in userspace with virtual disks, yet for some reason riot needs kernel level access since boot?

Must just be a skill issue I guess.
I play chess on my phone, and old RTS with the gang. Thr only online game i play is league.I wanted to get helldivers 2 as it seem fun, but wont cause of the anticheat.
Some of us dont play such games already. Also, for easyanticheat, since i used that to play online cs go tournaments back in the day, doesnt require a restart. Which means, that it is loaded after the OS. And thus, it doesnt have the ability to rule over it. It is also not just about privacy, but also about security. Riot is known to mess up with code, every patch. Even vanguard for valorant was buggy, for its own reasons. Imagine a simple bug, that wouldnt allow your OS to load, because vanguard loads at a very early stage, and could mess things up.
> A vast majority of live games you probably have played before /u/ACupOfLatte 

Nope. 

I would never install a rootkit on my computer, shill.
I know of easyanticheat cause i disabled that playing elden ring.

I dont buy games with rootkits in them. Elden was the only one.

What is your point actually? That im a hypocrite cause i MAY play other games with rootkits in them?
If i were cheating, vanguard wouldnt stop me. See valorant.
they literally said they'd uninstall the game over an invasive anti-cheat, why would you assume they are fine with EAC and others xd
Im not fine with any anticheat that has more rights than my OS, wasnt that clear?
Yea I absolutely get that. I think it opens on launch instead of game launch because the latter would allow bypasses.
Well sometimes I click Valorant quickly after booting up my PC and it asks me to restart it because I didn't wait until Vanguard started lmao.
You realise that vanguard has to be vetted by the same people as windows defender to be able to run on your computer?

I'm guessing not, since it seems that most people seem to think you can just make a kernel driver on a whim without realising they must be co-signed by microsoft to be able to run and that's not something they will do without a lot of vetting.
That's also the case for many other Anti-Cheats. For example: BattleEye is one of the most common Anti-Cheats and keeps running all the time, even when not in use in a game.

If you ask me people are uninformed and that's why they worry about the implementation of Vanguard. I was too btw before watching Necrits video and informing myself afterwards.
Not really true. Battleeye is always running and is the most popular anti cheat kernel level.
Did you read the article? Over 10 fucking percent of masters games have a scripter worldwide.

That’s a crisis that kills the game at elite levels.
I agree on that and we can say league doesnt need an anticheat but saying vanguard is bad when it is doing a much better job at it than their counterpart is absurd. It’s like that saying “the neighbour grass is always greener”, cs players would love a kernel anti cheat that works cuz vac doesnt and the reason is because it’s more “kind” with your data and isnt intrusive (mind you easy anti cheat is also kernel level but people seem to forget about it)
Is it?

10+% of masters + having a scripter is like an apocalyptic amount of cheating. Scripters also have an 80% WR globally, meaning that they basically win all theoretically winnable games.
Except the article literally states that they e reached a breaking point where 1/10 games in master+ have a scripter. Anyone’s who’s played any amount of high elo has felt the influx of the ruler clones on zeri.
Botting and selling accounts is at an all time high. Which yes. Is cheating in its own roundabout way.

Not really as big of an issue in Tac shooters.

I guess it's a lot easier to not see the problem with your head in the sand.
Its the same program
So in your opinion it's better to have a shitty AC so anyone can bypass it than to have a better one to inconvenience the cheaters into getting more expensive equipment, make cheating harder and more of a chore while not affecting legitimate players.    
I understand the hatred towards Vanguard you have but you seem to be uneducated about it all. But I know I won't change your mind with this so keep getting upset at Vanguard while getting your data stolen on your phone at the same time.
yes brother because valorant matches in radiant and immortal are infested with cheaters the same way 21k+ matches in csgo premier are. and thats why community figures in valorant have posted several videos recently that they will not play on official servers anymore and instead are focusing on faceit / 10mans because the game is that unplayable. 

oh wait.
I dont know after playing, i think you can deactivate it, but im 100% sure of not activating it before using it. They changed it after the community got angry for that same reason
Those are a bit better because they are more breathable
You seem to misunderstand, i am not arguing for / against vanguard. I just don't give a fuck.


But if an argument is what you want, i will give you one.


I use an android phone and a windows pc. I use heaps of google/microsoft software. Google and microsoft already know everything about me.


Anyone who wants can already buy all my information from google and microsoft. It's not like vanguard will change anything in that regard.


I also used kaspersky for most of my adult life, which had pretty much access to all my devices.


Vanguard is not going to change a single fucking thing
k shill.
And people cheat in Valorant in the same way, they just load them before the anti cheat and is the same story. It's not that much more complicated. Riot is selling the impression Vanguard is the definitive solution and it is not, it's not even close and Valorant is full of cheaters as well, just people call them smurfs instead of cheaters so there is an impression the game is clear.
And even if they did it’s always funny that those same people say “Well Europe and USA already spy on you who cares if it is China too?”

Has the same logic as “I was robbed by neighbor Eddie and Uriel so I might as well open my door specifically when Chris comes to rob me as well!” 

I’ll never understand the insane defense of “Well I believe the US government has the capability, time, and desire to spy on me and they do so currently; therefore I should not care when another even more rights abusing government wants to do the same to me!”
Brain damaged monkey with no understanding of how complex software interacts
My point is that data breaches and bugs happen all of the time in software. You all are using a weak ass excuse to justify your choices.
Jokes on you, they can't read.
It's almost like it was a joke or something.
Yeah the stuff needed to make the computer work is comparable to installing vanguard.
Recovering your grandma facebook password it's not working in cyber security, seriously, nobody can be that idiotic to believe someone would hack vanguard's server in order to what...Seriously, how the hell do you think compromising vanguard's server if that's even possible, would affect users 

Like how would do you even imagine you would send a payload that would fuck every installation on every pc around the world? You're either bullshitting or you have seen too many movies, but that's not how it works at all, you're just desilusional
Huh? I am talking about the company being untrustworthy, which it is. If you are not able to hire and educate your employees, so fuckups like this do not happen, then I do not trust you to hire someone to make an AC with root0 access, that simple.
r/Woosh
Idk if you confuse champion design with champion coding. Also, it shows their standards and etiquette. Their buggy and unoptimized game engine, their champion coding etc, their buggy client, all show the standards the develepment team is held up to.
And in faceit you have to pay to be there I believe.
Give me a source. I will gladly admit I’m wrong. And I’m obviously not denying TikTok is collecting data
... If you actually care about security there is no difference. If you don't want your info being collected then why did you care that the Chinese Gov is worse than the American one? Both are bad so avoid both. Don't say this shit and then go and play other games with AC just because "they are not owned by China tho".
How is it worse? Are you racist?
I trust faceit more, not completely, because they have built trust on their userbase. When i get cheated on, the user is allowed to cheat for a couple more games, mess with 10's of peoples ranks, and when you tell Riot about it, they are like "Whoopsie better luck next time". Faceit takes matters in their own hands and gives you back your elo. If they make a bad AC, more games will have cheaters, more elo will be returned, and their playerbase, which includes the whole of pro league, will look for alternatives. Saying faceit is a tournament service indicates to me that you dont know what faceit it but anyway. Faceit is established and their position isnt contested for a reason, they do their thing GOOD. Point is? They will do whatever they can to make their AC work, and be sure that no exploits are made, because they rely on that once specific service to make profit. Riot has tons of games, a tv series, music. If their AC is shit, i can still watch their movies, play the rest of their games etc.

> Valo has 1% cheaters

Debatable. Give me source, and preferably one that isnt just riot.

> tencent owns a good chunk of riot but Riot isn't owned by them

[https://www.google.com/search?q=what+portion+of+riot+does+tencent+own](https://www.google.com/search?q=what+portion+of+riot+does+tencent+own)

> nor do they make decisions about the company.

YET + as we know of. Thats the neat part about authoritarian governments. YOU CANT TRUST THEM.
I mean, he's speaking out of his ass, but cheat and anti-cheat engines with root access have been used as vectors several times before.

My concern is that a scripter/botter should be relatively easy to spot by observing input data, which is already available to Riot. It's probably an expensive endeavour, and it's fair that users critizice a company for compromising their systems safety in order to save some bucks.

Stopping botters and scripters is also not something players seem to care about so much. You may get 1/15 games with a bot, but 1/4 have a griefer on either side, and as long as they don't type they don't get any punishment. 

So now I have to risk compromising my system so that Riot can save a few bucks in solving a problem that's completely irrelevant to me, while they continue to ignore the widespread complains of their playerbase about people how through match ruining tantrums? Fuck that.
While Vanguard is an attack vector, it is probably not the only one and also not the first choice since  I highly doubt it is the weakest link on your PC.

It is all about taking calculated risks when you install stuff, or log in as admin by default ffs.
I didn’t say they were deceiving people…

98% of people in this conversation are just assuming everyone but them is stupid and part of some hive mind. It’s so annoying. You can’t have an opinion without some other guy’s delusional comment about Riot making malware or something being used against you.

It’s just a shit graph.
Please give me an explanation of what you think riot did.
Sure, I didn’t say there is not an increase in scripting or a problem, but the graph they chose does obfuscate the data and is a common practice if you take any class on statistics they should mention it as part of an ethics thing. 

I mean who knows if it was even intentional, but it doesn’t change the fact that it’s kind of a bad and easily misleading graph.
You are daft, this literally is a common tactic on how to manipulate public perception regarding an issue. The graph is intentionally misleading, greatly exaggerating the amount of scripters for one and also combining two completely separate stats. 

This is not how you make graphs, go and try to make a business presentation like this you will get fired. “Guys we sold 50000 cars/pens.” So I estimate we made somewhere from 50000 to a billion euros, we may or may not be rich, but lets now keep acting like we are rich and possibly bankrupt ourselves.

There is a reason you can not see clearly the amount of scripters per rank on any of their graphs, because you would see there is 1 scripter for every 50 thousand games, and that 75% of scripters are 55% winrate stuck masters+. Complete non issue and bs terribly poorly designed graphs that are made to decieve random gold into thinking scripting is an issue
I guess your online gaming days are over then. There will never be anothet competitive game that doesn't use kernel level anti cheat
Oh I know, and am in complete agreement with you. I only said what I said because what I was replying to was only talking about their issue with Vanguard and kernel level stuff, which imo, is the one argument that's overblown and yet somehow also the most talked about in comparison to the more important issues you stated.

I personally am going to completely avoid touching the game or the client until I've made sure all the kinks are ironed out, and even then I'll still do it in such a way that ensures I'll have to restart my PC to \*just\* play LoL.

It has to be said though, they've been on record talking about the differences between Vanguard on Valorant vs on LoL. I wouldn't expect Vanguard on LoL to have massive problems like it did at launch with Valorant, but I ain't exactly holding my breath with a company that refuses to dedicate resources to updating the client for their money maker game.

And while I'm not a competent professional developer, only dabbling in it casually for personal use, I genuinely cannot see how any sort of bug with Vanguard would cause a boot loop for the OS as the process does not interact with each other in any way. Unless a major design oversight happens that is, which would open them up to oh so much trouble.
I guarantee you have willingly done it on a number of occasions, and not just for games.

Unless of course your going to tell me you have never installed any kind of anti-virus/anti-malware on your PC in the last 10+ years (among other things), including windows defender....
His argument is if you have played a game that requires you to install a rootkit into your computer when you were less knowledgeable about this topic it makes you a hypocrite to change your behaviour after you learned new information because why not.
The amount of live service games with anticheats like EAC quite big. However kernel level anticheat is not the same as Vanguard. There's a massive outcry about stealing data or even mining bitcoin. Find it then, send it to Riot, sue them, get paid. Not sucking Riot's dick but all those people that complain about data being stolen are probably using their phone 24/7 and guess what, they are fine with data being stolen on that device! It's invasive because it has to be to combat cheaters and it's not gonna stop it, it will drastically reduce it but it will make it easier to work from it. So much crying yet not proof even after Valorant has been out for some time.
In that case you are in the minority, and my statement was wrong. Alright, have a good one
you know that's literally impossible right?
I am merely pointing out the reason for more distrust towards Vanguard and Riot with its past security breaches.
And it's a farce to think that number is going to go down after this.

The same people that are going to be stopped by a kernel anticheat are not the people that have the dedication to get to master(scripted or not).

Let's see the riot post in 2 years when they show these numbers again and then with hindsight we'll be able to tell if tricking millions into installing a potential vulnerability was worth it.
I only read the stats in the post, not their latest article.

Even if it was very different, I still don't agree with their solution and will stop playing if they enforce Vanguard. I personally haven't seen blatant cheaters in years, not sure where they're hiding, so I will not install anything that runs on ring 0 at all times, degrades my computer's performance, and is developed by a company with a questionable track record in terms of security just to fix an issue that I don't have.
I don‘t get this argument that people keep pulling „look 1/10 games in master+ have a scripter in them“ how and why does that matter for the rest 98-99% of the playerbase which VERY RARELY has to deal with a scripter and cheater. They could very well just monitor high elo games, which by the way has been suggested more than often, and ban them on that matter. But the cheap and easy and more importantly LAZY option for riot (which they always go with for the past couple years) is to just make everyone install root-kit anti-cheat  program on their pc which no one wants to have. Yeah I feel very valued as part of 98% playerbase especially if I happen to play this game completely casually. With that being said I‘m doing my part by already having uninstalled this game
The point is that if you started playing Valorant in the first place, this was part of the deal. Not for League.
>So in your opinion it's better to have a shitty AC so anyone can bypass it than to have a better one to inconvenience the cheaters into getting more expensive equipment, make cheating harder and more of a chore while not affecting legitimate players. 

Please quote the exact sentence where i said that.
That's not an argument tho. You've accepted defeat and will happily throw away your personal data (and access to your own pc) to anyone that tells you to. Just because you do doesn't mean you have to enable corps like tencent to do the same to millions of others. 

Just make sure you don't save anything useful on your machine (passwords, credit card number etc). Because the next breach into riot's source code might be your last if that's the case. Tencent might not but whoever finds a 0-day exploit on vanguard first might hit the jackpot. This jackpot may just be your bank account.
No, they even state that in the article. Cheating will never be reduced to 0% in any game, no matter how invasive the anticheat is. There're so many way you can cheat it's ridiculous and actual hack developers will find a way, that is true. The main thing it stops is convenience and ease of access. If you get banned for scripting right now, it takes you less than 5 minutes to hop back in on a new account that you bought for under £5. With Vanguard, most likely most botting programs used to create new accounts will get caught, reducing the supply of fresh lvl 30 accounts, increasing the price (not immediately but definitely after a month). Secondly, even if they find a way to bypass Vanguard to bot more accounts, the time and cost it took to do that will be probably higher and some developers will simply quit, once again, rasing the price of the account because of supply shortage and time/cost investment.    
Exactly the same thing will happen to cheaters. It will create bigger problems for developers to create cheats with potentially higher costs. Not too mention that if they get manually banned, they will need to change the setup or get a new account which could lead to another expense they don't want to have.    
Edit: Regarding Valorant and cheaters, me and my friends played plenty of competitive games of Valorant around plat recently and we maybe had 1, maybe 2 people that we dodgy so I have no idea where the assuption of 'Valorant is full of cheaters' is from. We all have them games where you can't shoot for some reason and another game you're top fragging because everything clicks.
Okay nice opinion. What is your background relating to computer science?
Stuff needed to make the computer work is just as susceptible to security issues as stuff that isn't needed.
U arent obligated to install windows and virtualisation software 😂
Someone who compromises vanguard could have it send out whatever info grubbing viruses theyve made to every single pc with vanguard on it. Also riot has had data leaks in like the past few years, cannot understand your unwavering trust towards them. Im pretty sure that youtube shorts guy has a video on the topic. He has credentials hes willing to show (unlike me cause im not gonna dox myself for this) and the videos are short and sweet enough for your attention span.
Wait, how the fuck are you supposed to get qualified personal if you require to have qualified personal lmao

Once you stop with the dumb "haha riot bad", you will gain some reasoning and critical thinking
-- There's no woosh here. Vanguard is not made by Riot. You're saying you need to trust Riot to use their stuff, but it's not theirs. It's 3rd party software made by people who specialize in that kind of stuff. This isn't made by Riot so this particular concern is invalid. --

EDIT: I am wrong
>Idk if you confuse champion design with champion coding.

I just said make champs. But yeah I should've been more clear I don't mean the design team

>Also, it shows their standards and etiquette

Champion bugs are low priority because no ones quitting the game or not buying skins over a bug. A vanguard fuck up could lead to lost players or worse (idk the laws around data leaks) so there's almost definitely more time put into it since it makes more financial sense. It was also built from the ground up so there should be less spaghetti code
No it's free.

There is a premium service so you can choose maps and see Elos, but just playing on their higher refresh servers with anti cheat is free.
No problem. [Here is an article](https://www.foxbusiness.com/technology/heres-data-tiktok-collects-its-users)

And a post in r/technology where people have more in depth conversation on what’s happening. [(From a week ago)](https://www.reddit.com/r/technology/comments/1bspx8a/heres_the_data_that_tiktok_collects_on_its_users/?rdt=49348)

Read the top comment for quick breakdown.
Think about what kind of government the CCP is. Not just surface level - consider their goals, methodology and ideals.

It has nothing to do with race.
After looking in to this yes, I was mistaken. I seem to have made the mistake since it was announced that outside China, Tencent has no influence on league and lets riot decide on everything (but i swear I read somewhere that Riot are back in control fully, again, my bad). So far, it has been that way and I see no reason as to why Tencent would meddle since everything is going good for now. As for Faceit, I know what it is and what it's used for, I mentioned tournaments because that's what it's used a lot for. Casuals don't go searching for stuff like that and the majority of the player base is casual. They just boot up the game and click "play", however Riot should do something about returning elo 100%, even shitty ubisoft implemented that for Rainbow six, if a player gets banned, elo gain/loss from matched that account played in is reverted as if the game never happened. As for the reason Cheaters aren't banned instantly on detection is very simple.

[https://www.youtube.com/shorts/cADaFm\_\_ApQ](https://www.youtube.com/shorts/cADaFm__ApQ)

[https://youtu.be/2YUmMFwSXpU?si=OIolmLqYx-XYUrzd](https://youtu.be/2YUmMFwSXpU?si=OIolmLqYx-XYUrzd)

I doubt you have more knowledge on the subject matter than this dude. He worked at Blizzard Entertainment as an offensive security specialist and at Amazon Games Studio as a Python developer. Then while at Amazon, he was bought out by the US government to hack  power plants in the US to improve their security. He also attended def con multiple times and has won three black badges for hacking.

He however is also against [kernel level](https://youtu.be/LY2hG-_asKU?si=5qCzreI1YzPOiEz0) anti cheat full heartedly just to mention. (Just for transparency, this is a conversation, not a gocha from me)
I have honestly no clue what you mean.

I can solidly tell you that no body in my classes told me that it is an ethical problem to show 2 graphs of different things in 2 different publications.

I still have no clue what you think might misslead a reader of that graph.
In the article there is later a graph with games containing at least 1 cheater divided by tiers.
I guess you are right. No big loss.
Wait ure retarded xdd
Every single fighting game 
Thing is, oversights happen. Riot had no systems in place to prevent phishing. Riot cant create a working client in its 3rd (i think) iteration => Riot isnt to be trusted. 

The CCP part that i also believe is valid, only adds to the problem/drama. And apart from bugs by legit developers, gettings compromised, would be even more devastating. Do you know what the xz thing is? Look it up. Riot would have unknowingly fallen for it, like everyone else. With just a bit worse timing, Vanguard could have been launched and compromised on the first day. Linux distros always warn you "with great power, comes great responsibility". And kernel level access is a lot of power Spidey.

Personally, I am ready to play on vanguard. I got my main drive encrypted and have a seperate hdd just for such games. But after seeing the, legit, propaganda and muting that Riot has done, and how little people realize whats going on, i think i might continue my current 4 month break, to an indefinite break.
The trees are saying that they’d be more open to VG if it wasn’t required to be on 24/7, the trees in general aren’t psyched about VG though…
Windows defender is part of windows
How is that a good argument in any conceivable universe?
>The amount of live service games with anticheats like EAC quite big.

And guess what, im not playing any of them.
Its apparently very hard for you redditors to understand that i do not want rootkits installed on my pc.
If cheating really is addictive as they said in their blog post then it won't stop cheaters because this anti-cheat won't even stop actual cheaters it's not that hard to bypass it, there is already many Valorant cheats still working (these guys don't need to develop new cheats just as they weren't before just buy a cheat from who develops them and follow some steps to bypass it). What it will stop is some people who might try how cheats are like for 1 or 2 games but these people are even a smaller population (their blog post counts botters as script for statistics manipulation so the actual scripters are less than that and the people that installs cheats just to see how it is like are even less than that). Also they said there isn't many Linux users left so we won't take them into account but it would be really good if they could show us the average daily users on Linux monthly for the last year and we would see a trend of player count going down after Riot announcing vanguard in League and fucking with League on Linux systems.
 Also almost all of the cheats that can bypass League's current anti-cheat boil down to scripts and as I said it's not a big problem until high elos (as in it doesn't appear in games a considerable amount) and usually what high elo players do when they are suspicious of someone scripting is throw their spells behind the enemy so the script makes them run into their team (enemy team for the scripter). I don't say this to say that they can easily deal with scripts but it makes it easier to see if there is a scripter for a human reviewing the game. So the script problem could easily be solved (at least in high elos) by community reviewing the games with potential scripters (the system will tell who in the game was reported as a scripter) and if you don't trust lower elo players to differentiate a scripter from a good player then make it so only people above a certain rank can watch games and vote.

10% percent of master elo matches mean nothing compared to 10% of gold or silver as the elo goes higher than the average the amount of matches made goes almost exponentially lower. I am not saying it doesn't mean anyhting but just reminding how statistics work.
I am aware im a minority, unfortunately.

You too!
Do you understand what ring 0 means?
compared to Microsoft who had the source code for windows stolen, and has a regular patch cycle for critical vulnerabilities?

sorry but objectively you are trusting the person who is worse.
Yes but it's distrust out of ignorance and all they do is spread misinformation without verification.
Imma be real with you, if you think riot is trying to "trick" people you should just leave already. You shouldn't trust them with the data you've already given them.
You got a better solution tucked away in your back pocket?
Because shockingly 10% of masters games is still a huge amount of games to manually review, and requires a long time to ensure no false positives at the bare minimum.

Furthermore the article also shows the distribution of scripters and there’s loads outside of high elo too! The uptick in both scripters and botters has exploded. These problems could remain at their levels but the more cheaters the more it slowly kills your game.

You also want your best players (especially the pros) to be able to play their game consistently at the highest possible quality, they’re one of the prime ways league gets actual eyeballs. Nothing destroys my will to play league then facing the next random low master 80% wr zeri. 

Also it’s not a lazy option, you clearly misunderstand the amount of work that goes into making software like this, keep the armchair expertise to league of legends not a field you know nothing about
By playing league you agree that they can implement changes like this in their tos
Well since you said that they only people it affects are legitimate players meaning that you don't want Vanguard meaning you want to stay with the anti cheat they currently have meaning you prefer a shitty anticheat.   
I know that English is not your first language but that is what's implied by your comment because there's no better anticheat that Riot could have used, than Vanguard as they simply don't do their job.
>  That's not an argument tho.


That is a perfectly good argument


>You've accepted defeat and will happily throw away your personal data (and access to your own pc) to anyone that tells you to.


Yes, if that's what you want me to say, then i have accepted defeat l. I don't have anything to hide, nor do i have anything valuable on my pc. They can have it all.


I do not intend to avoid using apps i need and playing games i enjoy just because of a theoretical threat on my non-existent secrets.


>This jackpot may just be your bank account.


How many people do you hear that get their bank accounts hacked?


I have been living on earth for 26 years and i haven't met a single person whose bank account was hacked.


Banks have so many security measures in place that this hypothetical scenario is so rare that worrying about it in your day to day life is absolutely pointless.
So the less stuff that is susceptible to such security issues the better. Nobody needs more stuff like that.
But why add more vulnerabilities? 

It’s like adding another entrance to a bunker that already had a perfectly good entrance.
Yeah I am not obliged to use a pc at all
Yeah you think you are so smart, but talk fucking nonsense, you need qualified hiring personnel in order to hire qualified personnel for your game coding for your anticheat for your human resources etc. 
There are many factors that come into play, when you hire and who you hire, for example your company policy, if you pay well etc.
Riot has a history of gender discrimination and pay discrimination, they had to settle a lawsuit with 100 mil. $. 
Their company policy is shit and they clearly are unable to hire qualified people, or they are unable or unwilling to teach those people how to protect our information. Leaks happen with Riot. And I do not trust them enough to have Vanguard on my pc. 
It is not as simple as “How do you hire qualified people if you do not have qualified people.” But if you need a simplified version of “how do you hire qualified people if you do not have qualified people”, the simple answer is you do not. The reason their personnel is not qualified is the same reason they will not hire qualified people, unless something changes. And I am not their fkn CEO, I do not know the internal struggles and reasonings. But if the game client is constantly buggy, the game is spaghetting codes with constant bugs that only get worse the longer the game exists, they get sued for sexism and gender discrimination, and for pay discrimination, then it is only logical to assume their priorities are wrong and that they do not have qualified people working for them. Sure their art teams etc. are good, but that is not the software side of their company and those are also not the policy makers in their company. And oh wait they recently fired most people that worked on their side projects, some art and technical support for Proplay so even proplay streams have been bugged and poorly. Can not wait for them to finally do no fuckups with root0 access anticheat.
> Vanguard is not made by Riot

That is actually just false. [https://letmegooglethat.com/?q=Who+created+Vanguard+Anticheat+software](https://letmegooglethat.com/?q=Who+created+Vanguard+Anticheat+software)
> not buying skins over a bug

Thats an issue. Their whole thing is selling skins. Not having a good game with a playerbase that trusts them. All they need is an addicted playerbase. And an addicted playerbase would 

> A vanguard fuck up could lead to lost players or worse

continue playing the game even if they get spied on. Google spies on you. We still use it cause its just too useful. Tik tok spies on us, people still use it cause its addicting. Also, Riot still has other (upcoming) games, with no AC. Players could easily hop to the next game as soon as an AC breach gets public. Most people just dont care about their privacy, and they clearly say that if you look at comments.

Its not as if Vanguard is out and buggy already but it is a red flag the size of Mars. One honest mistake, could lead to a breach, over a video game. Noone should risk having their personal info and data on the dark web, so that they can play league of legends.
Faceit always had and still has cheaters, much more than it used to though, Valve does not give a fuck about anticheat and Riot does not either. 
In cs you can play 5 matches and there is 90% chance either enemy or your team was cheating in those five games. In League you can play five years in a row and never encounter a single cheater. In my 10+ years of playing I met like one scripting Tryndamere and one scripting Reksai and maybe like 1-2 sus people other than that who I would say were scripting. Vanguard is not about stopping cheaters
As far as I’m aware, this isn’t any different from what Meta collects. Only difference is that the major shareholder of TikTok is Chinese, and therefor seen as a threat by the American government, since they don’t know what happens to the data (even though the CEO denied those rumors in court, believing it or not is up to yourself tho). Unlike Meta which is American and lobbies in American politics, as well as share data with the government. And in my eyes there’s really no difference whether my data is shared with the us or with china. But I guess my original comment might be misplaced since I suggested that TikTok wasn’t complicit in any data collecting/sharing
>As for the reason Cheaters aren't banned instantly on detection is very simple.

You provided me info I already know. I know about ban waves. Btw i know that guy already

I respect the transparency. But this goes to show that IT IS a serious matter. Its just a security threat that people are too uneducated to see, too addicted to quit, and dont value their privacy as long as they can get the daily digital dose of dopamine.

I want to make it clear. 

> but i swear I read somewhere that Riot are back in control fully, again

That part, is exactly what someone who is in control would say, but that is also exactly what someone who is completely controlled would say. China, Russia, middle East countries etc, have less transparency than democratic ones have. And even democratic ones, have scandals announced every now and then. Do you think its that hard for China to apply pressure to tencent to provide them with more data, or to implant spyware etc? Its not a given that it will happen. [But anything that can go wrong, will go wrong](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Murphy%27s_law)
If by divided you mean scrabbled over each other then sure, there is a graph, that also shows that there are little to no scripters in League. At peak 15% of GM games had scripters or botters, oh no shiver me timbers an ezreal that will E into a turret to dodge my skillshot, spooky stuff. Definitely want a spyware on my pc in case I climb out of mid dia through master and into GM. If I get the le funny brick your pc Vanguard installed now they will take action against cheaters in half the time in couple of years when they make progress with the AC (according to their graph).

Woow in long run in 5 years this will save me 100LP absolutely outstanding and amazing, might as well go and download every single torrent and unzip the files right now. Newsflash, in a week you will lose more due to afk players and griefers than you will lose thanks to scripters combined in two months even if you are Master tier. The point is not if this is actual spyware, which it probably still is. The point is I will not give root0 access to a company that is unable to make a 5000 year old game run smoothly. Who even needs scripts, half the time I can hover over fog of war and hear enemy jungle casting abilities.
So we won't see you commenting on league forums in 3 weeks once again?
you do realise its also a standalone application with its own kernel level drive the same as vanguard right?

I guess not though, because you don't really understand the tech being talked about like 99% of people, but you heard kernel mode and just got scared.

I also notice you ignored that every single anti malware uses the same process? and not to mention to make a kernel level driver you need the code signed by Microsoft for it to even run on anyone's computer?

The amount of hoops you have to go through to get a driver like this is HUGE its not something that riot can just make on a whim, or even change on a whim.
Your OS exist lil bro

If you use discord they can monitor all the process running on your computer too without being labelled as kernel level softwares
Firstly, yes, no anticheat is perfect and there's always a way to bypass it, it just might be more difficult or more expensive.     
Secondly, they are not manipulating the statistics, it clearly states scripters and botters (and they are both a problem) so I don't see a problem here. They just combined two statistics into one to make it easier to read, potentially.     
Thirdly, Linux is problem for any Anti cheat developer. Yes, they could have showed how many people did actually play before the news of Vanguard coming in but don't make it sound how massive of a playerbase Linux had for League because it probably still was in 0.000000001% of the playerbase.     
With community detected scripters, I can agree on that. Overwatch like in CSGO but for League could be a great implementation to help the devs catch scripters but if they trust their anticheat and then manual review the reported players then there's no need for Overwatch.     
With the statistics, bare in mind that 10% is 10%, no matter how you look at it. The only difference is the actual number of scripters but percentage is the same either way. Imagine you're a proplayer, you are training as you meant to do but every 10 games on average you have a scripter. And if Vanguard doesn't get implemented, let's say that it increases to 1 in 5 games. Sometimes it's not about the current value and how that's a problem. Sometimes it's just seeing a trend that it continues to increase and putting a stop to it before it goes too far and potentially loses you money or reputation because you neglected it for so long.
you do realise that's not the level that this is operating at? and that the OS is already underneath any drivers on your system?

its impossible to get more rights then your OS because literally everything runs inside it.

but don't take my word for it, I have only spend the last 10 years doing security research and looking into the windows kernel internals and seeing what access drivers like this gets you.
The regular patch cycle for critical vulnerabilities is a good thing. There is not as much money in hacking games compared to hacking computers. Hackers are constantly finding new things because of the sheer scale. I myself don't like Windows, but their antivirus is really strong since about 2020.
At least Microsoft is not obligated to report to the CCP.
I haven't played a riot game for a while.

There's a difference between trusting them with some collected data, and trusting that their driver will never be used by a third party for RCE or data exfiltration.

Is it not a "trick" to tell people you're installing a potential security hole, without telling them it's a potential security hole?
No, but it's not my job to fix their mess.

Surprisingly, other games do better in this aspect
No one was arguing that it's illegal for them now did they?
Your bank account doesn't get hacked, your credit card information gets leaked and people buy stuff with it. Yes that actually happens a lot.
Haven't you thought that for your kernel access gets exploited, you kinda need to have your PC compromised in first place? Don't you think thats already concerning? Like why would a malware inject in vanguard if it's already in your PC and cause issues as they were doing forever
Nah, not reading that 💀💀


Nothing good could come from this toxic community
Well would you look at that. I guess I got bad info. My apologies for spreading bad info.

Granted the info I got while looking into it makes it even less concerning. It's like people are just looking for stupid reasons to panic. Not only is this not remotely close to the first of this type of softwareused in games, but Riot has put a very sizable bounty on it for hackers who actually are able to find a way to crack it.

With the amount of money involved, no one is going to bother trying to crack into the software and not immediately alert Riot for a big payday. The complaints against this get weaker the more research I do into all of it.

EDIT: fixed spelling error.
>Thats an issue. Their whole thing is selling skins

Well yeah. Every company just exists to make money

>Not having a good game with a playerbase that trusts them

These 2 aren't mutually exclusive though. If you make a bad game less people with play and less people will sell skins. Their goal is engagement, huge data breaches don't help engagement. 

>continue playing the game even if they get spied on.

Sure but most players aren't addicted. There's definitely a lot of people who will play this game no matter what, and a lot of people who, if a vanguard breach did happen would probably keep playing. But it's bad for their company. Tencent shares would probably be affected if vanguard fucked up 2 of the biggest multiplayer games in the world currently. 

>Tik tok spies on us

Dubious evidence of that

>people still use it cause its addicting

Most of the people who use tiktok don't believe it's spying on you any more than other social media. At least from what I've seen in my circles and on the app

>Noone should risk having their personal info and data on the dark web, so that they can play league of legends

Sure. But you risk having your personal info on the dark Web if you use a computer at all. This is like being scared to ride a bike because you might fall and hurt yourself. If you're really scared of this stuff you should probably already be using a service like aura or another similar thing.
Scripters use all sorts of tools not just abilities and movement. I stopped playing a month ago after I got drophacked out of lobby 4 different times in masters. Then my next game I play vs a scripting ezreal. 5 years in a row doesn’t matter, right now does. Their source code got leaked 1-2 years ago and now hacks are all over the place. Me and a handful of my friends just stopped playing league because of cheaters. Vanguard may not stop all cheaters but will hopefully keep 75%+ out of games.

I may not come back even with vanguard because of kernel access. Still debating it.
This. If you actually care about where your information is going it doesn't matter if a product is owned by the Chinese or American government. People fear mongering people over the fact riot is owned by tencent don't realise that if you actually care about security you shouldn't be using anything that sold your information to any government.
Spyware from China would get the game banned if detected, so I doubt they would go for it. As for the other parts, yea you have a point for sure. I was just curious why so many people I see crying about Vanguard but have no issue and play other games with AC that has the same level of access. Best option would be if people outright refused to use stuff with AC that has Kernel so devs are forced not to implement it or risk loosing money, but we both know that won't happen. As for Vanguard stats and how many cheaters are in Valorant, where else would you get the info from other than Riot? You obviously don't trust the company but there is no way they would let anyone from outside of riot to look at their data and confirm their stats. You ether believe it or you don't. Idk what to tell you.
So you are just anoyed that they want to add vanguard and disagree with their reasoning. That is fine, but no reason to cry about how they used graphs to "lie" about stuff.

You can think vanguard is bad without claiming that those that want to introduce it are evil and manipulative.
Why would i?

I dont comment on helldivers 2 forums.
Who said I have an issue with Kernel access? My point is that Windows Defender can be treated as an extension of Windows, the OS, itself, regardless if it is a separate app.

Additionally, an anti-malware has a justification to run 24/7, Vanguard had one, but it is loose.
Cool bro. Great point. Doesn’t make it necessary
What I meant by mentioning difference between 10% of master elo and other elos was that it will take less effort to fix this issue than if it was at the average rank through community viewing and also 10% of master games will be plagued by the same players since it's actually 1% (or even less if most of the games with scripters have more than 1 scripter and a good amount at that) of the master elo players and the pool is already small. I don't have any data on Linux players obviously but when it came to that part of the blog it felt like Riot was misleading people.
 I wasn't talking about a foolproof anti-cheat but more about how it's a cat and mouse game and after somewhere the cheaters will cheat but the cost for the innocent players will start to increase the cost I am talking about is things like issues Valorant players faced (fans not working, blue screen) and Vanguard becoming a necessity also makes bad actors focus more on exploiting Vanguard (more people having Vanguard downloaded). So, what I mean is League players installing Vanguard will increase cheating on Valorant and the bad actors exploiting Vanguard to gain access to other people's computers. This will introduce Riot more work to combat people bypassing Vanguard detection to keep Valorant at least as safe as it is now (both from cheats and bad actors).
>but don't take my word for it

Dont worry, i wont take a ranfom redditors word for anything.
a regular cycle for critical vulnerabilities is a bad thing, that means you regularly have critical vulnerabilities..
you know Microsoft controls what they can collect because they have to sign the driver right?
I think the part where you are being misleading on is whether this is a greater security hole than already exists.
My understanding is that most other live games have similarly invasive kernel level anti-cheat. My understanding is also that Vanguard is also extremely effective, further justifying its invasiveness.
I don't know about you, but every single online payment i make requires sms confirmation from my physical phone. You can't just take my credit card number and buy things with it lol


But even if you did i would be notified immediately and block my card and charge back
Yeah when you ask from explanation and someone provides it, you are not reading it, got it. You are a 15y/o kid who never held a job, idk why you are even speaking about hiring processes of companies and cybersecurity of riot games. Go watch sigma compilations and keep typing about people lacking critical thinking, when you can not even read text that takes 60 seconds to read, you lil cringe vermin
Good of you to accept your mistake.

One thing you dont get, is the concept of privacy, digital privacy in our case. Its fine, but its one of the things that you think are super stupid, until one day, it clicks and you go 180 on your beliefs.

When someones values their privacy, having even a slight chance of something going wrong, is out of the question. Example: How many backups of their data should someone have? 1? 2? No. Some say at least 4, and all of them, in separate locations. Usb + cloud + hard drive + at a friends house or office etc. Most people only store them in one place. Someone who values their data, goes above and beyond to protect it. 

Also, people are saying "fuck you" to big corpos, because of the rotting of the whole industry. But that is too big of a discussion, go watch some Rossmann if you will.
> But you risk having your personal info on the dark Web if you use a computer at all

Smart use of a tool, wont result in accidents. Riot is forcing you to use a tool that can cause harm. People object to it cause they both want to play league, and not use such a tool.

As for the part of addicted players, we might be using different meanings for the word addicted, but most players are addicted. Why? How can they continue to play for hours, while claiming the game is shit, while raging, cursing etc? League is the most toxic game-human relationship i can think of. And for that reason, i believe player engangement wont change a bit even if a data breach happens.

But anyway. Its all about choice. Its just outrageous that riot forces this on us. Make 2 queues, just like CS GO
Cheats as scripting program never required a leak or anything, it's people finding pointers and structs to sniff information 


I have been part of communities of cheating and it's just about that, a new update comes, the community starts to share pointers to update your cheat, there's no  single thing that would be useful in a leak that who knows how old and useless might it be
> Spyware from China would get the game banned if detected

Tik tok is getting banned for that. Huaweii was the leader in telecommunications in US, and was literally thrown to the side for security reasons. If the US has reasons to be suspicious of China, they must be on to something. And the fact that they spy on their citizens, makes them even more of an authority to judge who is able to spy on other people
They are manipulative, as you can clearly see from terribly made graphs that are extremely difficult to read by design. You can see the whole community parroting 15% of League games have cheaters, which was the desired effect of this manipulation. And they are evil, because they are trying to introduce unethical software to your pc and justify it with manipulation.
So you're ok with some companies taking your data, just not Riot specifically
All those things considered, we are in 2024. To get a better competitive integrity, you need better anti cheat measures. To get better anti cheat measures, you need better equipment that can run it. I've played Valorant on and off, never really unninstalling Vanguard and I never had problems that you listed with not amazing specs, especially on my old rig.    
Reality is, if people take care about their PCs, they most likely won't have the problems listed. And yes, it's a cat and mouse game between anti cheat devs and cheat devs therefore anti cheat devs also need to upgrade their systems. In League's case, it's upgrading it to Vanguard that has proven to be working fine with cheating not being rampant while also cheaters not being able to play too many games without a ban.    
To get access to people's computers, there most likely needs to be a leak of some sort. Cheaters bypass Vanguard in different ways but it's not by exploiting the anti cheat, it's by spoofing or bamboozling the anti cheat that everything is fine so the game launches.
you just keep on spreading random buzz words to make it sound like you know what your talking about, while saying things that clearly show you don't know anything about the topic.

one day you might even understand what the words your saying mean.
Even Apple has this problem...
>My understanding is that most other live games have similarly invasive kernel level anti-cheat.

They don't. 

>My understanding is also that Vanguard is also extremely effective, further justifying its invasive enough.

It doesn't justify anything, at best it's flawed reasoning. 

There's no reason for it to be booting up with Windows, for starters. We also know it affects performance. For some people it even changed their computer's fan speeds, leading to overheating and blue screens. So, at the very least, you get a slower computer *at all times* just because you want to play League/Valorant *sometimes*. Seems fair?

And that's not even touching on the fact the majority of the playerbase isn't Masters+ to be affected by the issue they're trying to fix.

Plus Riot doesn't have a good track record of security. League source code was leaked. What if the same happens to Vanguard, which leaks to some exploit being found? All players would be at risk as soon as they boot up their computers, because Vanguard starts with Windows.

And these are just the things I can come up with in a few minutes of thinking. I'm sure there are other concerns about Vanguard.

Edit: sorry if it comes across as aggressive, that wasn't my intention, but I have some strong feelings towards these shady practices
Good for you but a lot of credit cards actually don't require any confirmation. I am pretty sure I could empty your bank account and lose your job if I got kernel-level access on your pc. This is the case with a very high amount of people. 

Maybe working in IT makes me a bit paranoid idk
Film update:
I feel like I posted this a year ago… idk. This is not a criticism of Mark, just a joke at how he’s still in the “final stretch”
Hello! Thanks for posting. This is a reminder about the rules. Make sure the post is appropriate and not to delegate or go against Reddit policy or r/Markiplier Rules. If this does break rules, please report it immediately. Posts that encourage raids on other subs or platforms is a bannable offense.

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/Markiplier) if you have any questions or concerns.*
I think mark should do on set vlogs or something. Would love for some easy content on his end and entertainment for us
Mark doesn’t control Edge of Sleep, and the guy has been consistently posting on his channel for like over ten years now, it’s fine for him to take a break to focus on his current passion project.
He's not making edge of sleep, he's just an actor. He has no control over its production or release.
[removed]
I’ve been waiting for season 2 of Edge of Sleep for so LONG
I feel like this is the truth nowadays
I mean, he has a variety of ambitions. Each one takes time to develop. Assuming he had to give updates to the people who helped make it like the creator of the game, the team members who helped produce it, etc, I would assume it took precedent over his YouTube channel and Edge of Sleep since there are more people involved.
you forget, about podcast,
It's been said multiple times that Edge of Sleep isn't Mark's Project. He has no control over that release or its development hell currently. Some of us wish it'd stop being referenced alongside Iron Lung or his YouTube cause there's *nothing* he could do for it right now, it's in someone else's hands
No bc after I watched the leaked trailer for EOS, I need it in my life.
ungrateful shits are so damn impatient, mark is only human he can't do everything at once satisfy everybody
When is Iron Lung comming? The trailer says soon... is it gonna drop this year?
I miss the edge of sleep so bad. Glad I’m not the only one that enjoyed and remembered it.
To be fair, I don't think Mark has much control over The Edge of Sleep. They shot the series, in went into post production and it's out of his hands.

I tried to look up some info not too long ago, and the production company is silent about it, the filming team is silent about it, Mark at some point said that there was "some" progress but was as vague as possible to not go against the NDA.

Maybe the distribution company froze the project, maybe it's going through post-production turmoil, we don't know, and probably won't know for a while.

  
There was a contract renewal for a second season of the audio series in 2022, and that went silent as well. Maybe because the team who works on it is currently focusing on the TV series. Or maybe Wood Elf (the same who helped create Distractible and currently Brain Leak) just shut the whole thing down because they don't believe in the project anymore after nothing was published for so long and they feel they hype wave has long passed. As a reminder, the original audio series is from 2019, so 5 years ago.

  
Idk, we can only speculate.
I don't care about Edge of Sleep, personally.

And honestly, I think it's awesome Mark is doing Iron Lung, and he has been providing gaming videos for years and years now, sometimes on a daily basis! So these few months of less regular content mean nothing to me, I think it's going to absolutely be worth it.

I also love David Szymanski's games and am incredibly happy that a creator like Markiplier was willing to collaborate on a movie, I'm much more interested in what it's going to be like than the majority of mainstream, 'regular' movies coming up these days. As far as I'm concerned, they can keep making movies about DUSK, The Pony Factory, Fingerbones, Chop Goblins, Squirrel Stapler, whatever.
eos is out of his hands
I rember him telling us that he was doing some editing for it, and then it was never brought up again.... ever
I really hope Markiplier from North Korea gets a re-release soon.
apparently iron lung is done? last sunday momiplier went live and said that she‘s going to watch the premiere of iron lung so its at least done in the english version. if there even will be synchronized versions for other languages (if anyone knows this, lmk)
Why do y’all expect people to be superhuman lol it’s no wonder he is burned out
Whats the edge of sleep?
What is edge of sleep?
He caught the Stuckmannitis.
need mark bob and wade to hop on the planet crafter train and terraform a planet together
*And* it’s like he just forgot about Unus Annus! /j
Ngl I forgot edge of sleep existed
Mark’s Shadows over loathing playthrough:
Distractable diserves to be put up there.  They are very consistant about 2 a week
I really want him to play the quarry so bad!
What’s edge of sleep?
dude i have been waiting on the edge of sleep since they announced a tv adaptation
Would you rather have another rushed FNAF movie or a masterpiece made by one of the most qualified people for this?
Did you poopoo when you shoulda peepeed?
He's trying man
I forgot he did the edge of sleep
The baby should also have Distractable on it.

Which everyone should be listening to.
im pretty sure he did a video talking about slowing down on uploads and focusing on the movie
Will you guys shut up about edge of sleep. For the millions time he doesn't have control of it
And then another project.... and then another
Yeah this wait is just fine. 

I’m a Metroid and a Hollow Knight fan, this wait is nothing
Whats edge of sleep??
Mark should just do another one of those “I review _____ food”

Except it’s just whatever he finds after filming for a day
Remember, he doesn’t make Edge of Sleep, he’s an actor in it. Idk how much creative control he has but it being this delayed is unlikely to be on him.
Iron lung is a film? I thought it was a horror game where you're in a submarine
I dont think Edge of sleep is up to him..
When is the edge of sleep coming out?
The website for the edge of sleep says a 2024 release
Did we forget gmfst and distractible?
Tbh I don't mind that he's not uploading as much anymore. Don't get me wrong, I love Mark's videos, but I've been excited for Iron Lung ever since it was announced.
Fr fr fr fr fr fr fr 

btw does anyone know where I can watch Edge of Sleep?!?!
He is busy with a major project.
Don’t worry.
When he is done he will (most likely) come bursting back in.
People have started to block him due to his silence on Gaza/Operation Olive Branch. Sad to see someone that does so much charity be silent on something that he could save so many lives just by saying a few words. 
Even Jack addressed it, so ridiculous mark hasn't.
I forgot about him a bit. Haven’t seen anything other than an apology and excuses.
I Love Mark but fr this is annoying af. in the past 3 years he has uploaded so infrequent and far between like his last video as of now was 1 month ago! like he just now does big projects! he said it himself and sometimes streams for people who pay money he should just quit and say he is quitting and be done with it
Problem is he isn't on set anymore. It's all editing now.
I assume any on set vlogs or behind the scenes filming he did will get posted a while after the movie is out to avoid accidental spoilers
The live-action version is being produced by him
To be fair, he is literally an executive-producer, though just one among like 18 other various producers lol
I’m waiting for the official trailer to see anything.
I thought that The Edge of Sleep was a podcast. What is it actually? It also looks like a movie that also already exists.
Did anyone ever buy and read the book?
i've been on the edge of my patience for it
It’s been so long
What podcast? I’m curious
I mean, Edge of Sleep season 2 has been given like three release windows by now. But then again Edge of Sleep is out of his hands
Frrr
I don’t have a link but I think someone on r/distractible posted a screenshot that said Mark and his family was watching the premiere of Iron Lung so hopefully this year if not by end of summer.
I just discovered the podcast version like less than a month ago, then this week I watched a trailer for it and was like wait wait wait, we can WATCH this?!? WHERE?! Apparently nowhere going by this thread :(
I’d pay Marvel 3D IMAX dollars to watch a Squirrel Stapler movie, tbh.
God forbid a man have other things to do
yeah! dont let mark be ambitious and branch out to other creative mediums!!!! blasphemy!!1!1!1!!
But he clearly isn't done with it if he still posts.
Because god forbid Mark has aspirations and ambitions.
Damn. Can’t really show much of the editing process there without revealing anything
Not even editing. The movie premiered a couple days ago
I don’t think he would have had time. Filming booked up his days solid because he had a limited time with the camera iirc
It's just paperwork now
its not
I honestly thought that this trailer was gonna be a fan made edit to make it seem like an official trailer, but once I had realized that it was an actual leak, I was already hooked and couldn’t turn it off. Hope the official trailer gets released soon. Kinda thinking it’ll be released whenever the official iron lung trailer is released.
Originally it was a podcast. A year or two ago they were recording for a tv show based off of it but it's never released yet.
It’s a podcast that was released on YouTube and other platforms like Spotify in 2019, but the story will be adapted in a tv show, Mark will be in the lead role, playing Dave like he did in the podcast but he isn’t the creator. 

I think the podcast was adapted in a novel written by Jake Emmanuel and Willie Block, but I’m not actually sure if the book came before or after the podcast, I haven’t red it.
Audio drama
Bought, haven't got around to reading it yet
🤣😂🤣😂
Indeed it has
Since last I’ve seen my son lost to this monster
Two podcasts

Distractible and Go! My Favorite Sports Team
I forgot I posted this comment and got so exited when I saw someone asking about a podcast cus I thought I was gonna be able to talk about and share a dnd podcast I love lol
exactly, blame it on the staff, not the actors
I feel like just a livestream of his face while editing would be hilarious he could add random screams of annoyance just for entertainment just only showing his face nothing else
Also, as an editor, you can’t show much of the process and make it entertaining either.
It is tho
Mark Fischbach - Executive Producer. It's always amazing how people can be so confidently incorrect.
It was filmed in 2021 and they've been busy editing it. People dont seem to realize it's out of Mark's hands since he's really just an actor on the series, think he's a producer too, but some other production company is handling distribution deals but haven't found anyone to distribute it yet, they're aiming to release it this year, but we'll need to wait and see really. There's also been release issues with the second season of the podcast, which has been recorded but keeps being delayed.
To the man behind the slaughter
Distractible is one I am listening to but not the other on. I guess I have heard about it but forgot about it
That sounds like a very Mark thing to do honestly lol
Yeah but Mark isn't doing the editing himself on this movie. And no one wants a livestream of him and 15 editors on a video call discussing shirt colors.
I'm behind on distractible. Like, January episodes behind. It's funny to me being that far behind and hearing how close to release the movie supposedly always was and always will be.
look it up
and where did you read mark is an executive producer for edge of sleep? 💀
I've been so looking forward to listening to the second season. I just wish it would come out already!
Oh I’m sure a lot of people would absolutely love that lmao but I do understand it probably just wouldn’t be to practical
He's an executive producer
you all are obsessed just watch old videos or wait patiently hes doing an awesome thing. yall are acting like feins for content
producing and publishing is something else though
You said he doesn't control anything. He might not have total control over all aspects of the project but he's atleast involved in the production
yeah but its probably done producing and just not published yet. he said he doesnt know more than we do because he‘s not involved with the latter
WE DID IT??
Got into Prime Video and immediately screamed when I saw this
Hello! Thanks for posting. This is a reminder about the rules. Make sure the post is appropriate and not to delegate or go against Reddit policy or r/Markiplier Rules. If this does break rules, please report it immediately. Posts that encourage raids on other subs or platforms is a bannable offense.

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/Markiplier) if you have any questions or concerns.*
My fiance and I actually got to watch it tonight. So good.
Nice!!
FUCK YEAH BABY!!

even though I haven't watched the show yet... I haven't had the time yet. I REALLY, REALLY wanna watch it though.
Still on top 10 list?
On Mark's new PowerWash Pals Podcast (I found it on Spotify by searching Markiplier) episode called The Truth About The Edge of Sleep, I believe he says "The plan is complete." They mostly wanted to see if the show could remain popular for a month, and even though it hasn't been a month, it's performed better than what they would have thought. Mark says he knew it would happen, but of course, they doubted him.

Also, that particular episode has some nice behind-the-scenes talk about the show, and he mentions how much work he put into it.
Is it still us only?
binged this last night and im afraid of the dark again 🫶
I got a VPN just to watch the show from Canada!
I really hope it gets released to the rest of the world. Keep up the good work USA
Did everyone see in mark’s latest Spotify podcast that he actually did a huge amount of editing himself on the show? He says it’s not his show, but in large it feels like his ‘project’
Finished it with my fiancé, who had listened to the original Spotify posting, and he thought it was spectacular. Specifically the part where Mateo has to use "the peroxide". Genuinely forgot it was Mark playing the MC too, it was honestly pretty stellar all around. I don't think there was a single character we disliked acting-wise either!
Can’t even watch it, brokie here lol
Is it worth a prime acct? I don’t really use that shit
I really wish it would come to the UK
WE BEAT THE SNOT OUT OF HOMELANDER
Woot woot
YEAHHH BABY, THATS WHAT IVE BEEN WAITIN FOR!!
Just download SharkVPN or any other VPN switcher to watch it! I live in Canada and I’ve watched it
Thank god we all sledged our eep hard enough
🥳🥳🥳
Mission accomplished, fellas! The plan has worked!
Let’s hope you American edgers get it popular enough that it gets a European release
Just use a VPN, set your location to somewhere in the USA and enjoy.  Easy workaround, and well worth a few bucks per month for some extra security anyway.
Wholly shit
Thanks for reminding me! Need to cancel my prime membership.
You sure that’s not your most watched?
YES. WE, THE MARKIPLIER STANS, SHALL DO HIS BIDDING WITH NO THOUGHTS BEHIND OUR\* EYES, ONLY MARKIPLIER.
I have good news and bad news, the bad news is that we’re no longer in the top 10, the good news? Neither is judge judy 🤣
my fiancé and i loved it!!
I can't watch this cuz the show does not exist on India's Prime 😂😂. Are there any alternatives?
When did Mark say this show would release? I’ve been refreshing my prime video lately and I can’t get it to show.
Im suprised it had gotten a rating of TV-14 considering its 2nd episode
I can't watch it here in the uk
I just got notified of this. Sorry if it's a duplicate: Edge of Sleep is now streaming on Tubi
Coming from Canada, I beg you guys to watch the show! I know so many Canadians who are desperate to watch it and don't have VPNs!
Does this mean it's gonna be brought to Canadian Prime?
Would like to know why he was able to film in Canada and then not make it available here tho🥲
Let’s go
I played it in the background for the last 4 days while working . Anything and everything for king Markiplier!!!
Awesome My Friend !! Liked it a lot , very very good though Marky Mark !! ..
ITS NOT ON CANADIAN PRIME
Woohoo!
Okay?
i need it in norway :((((((
It was good but I preferred the podcast 😁
Damn, nice👍
it actually looks good Mark, what is it about?
We want more!
OOOOO
I didn’t know it was on PRIME! I’m gonna go watch it all tonight
Just based off the description, sounds a little like Day 5 from Rooster Teeth.

Cool idea. I look forward to checking it out.
Soooo when's season 2
When is it coming to Canada please!?
now we just need to get it outside of the US too!
It’s not on Prime in Ireland so stupid 😭
Can't wait to watch this!
Im in the uk and im desperately still trying to find a way to watch it 😭
I really hope they bring it to the UK soon! I watched it via VPN but I wanna watch it again on the tv. Bring on season 2 too!
No, it's not in first place. That's essentially what's trending at the moment. You want to look for the one that says something like "top 10 in the US." It'll even have a huge number next to it indicating which place it's in
it's not going to make it back into the top 10. or the top 20. Amazon hates original concepts and loves pointy-eared fanboys with deep pockets.
YAYYY that's awesome you both enjoyed the show!! Make sure to tell people about it so hopefully we get new viewers, that seems to be the best way to help Mark and get it available outside the US!
PLEASE DO IT'S SO GOOD!!

BUT if you can't watch a lot at a time, the episodes aren't long like most shows! (they're like 20ish minutes at most, the longest is 26) 

Also sometimes if I know I can't finish an episode I'll try to stop when a scene changes! Like if there's a scene where it's nighttime and it leaves off on the characters going somewhere in the morning and/or switches to a different character. It helps me realize the scenes aren't technically minutes apart too!
THE PLAN, MAN!  THINK OF THE PLAN!
Make sure to watch it this week-end if you can ! Mark has said if we make it in the top 10 each week-end until the end of the 1 month delay it should be plenty enough.
Have a good watch and end of year !
Sadly I think it's not there rn :(
You make a super good point, and I think we all did a wonderful job of showing up and supporting the show! It sucks it's only US so far, cause it would have gone through the roof if it was! But here's to hoping those naysayers realize they were wrong about Mark and the community's dedication lol.
Oh I'll have to check that episode out.

EDIT: I watched the episode. He mentions that he'll have to wait for a full month to pass until any discussion/decision can be made.
Which episode?
From what I've kept up on, yeah it's still only US. Mark hasn't uploaded a video saying it's been available which sucks. I'm hoping behind the scenes they'll listen to him and be able to distribute it in other countries.
For some reason I miss read this and thought you were asking if it was only you and op watching the show still 😂
it be like that sometimes 🫣 >!whales now have a different vibe and I don't know if I should be concerned lol!<
Lmao let's gooo we love the dedication in this household
Are you able to use the free month trial?
Ahh man, I hope you're able to watch it at some point <33
You should be able to get a one month free trial unless you already used it, *cough, maybe try a new email* then you can cancel it afterwards.
The episodes are only like 20 minutes and there's six of the total, so you could totally use the free trial idea! But make sure to delete/change your info after so they don't charge you!!
Heck yeah! Also happy cake day dude! <3
Nope, there were plenty of shows on the list I've never watched!!
Side note, the show was really good and I can't wait for more to come out. XD
NO WAYYY

I wonder if this means we have Mark fans who watch Judge Judy a lot and they stopped for him lol
I'm pretty sure there's a lot of filming lots/locations in Canada that are available for filmmakers to use who are from the US, there's just a difference between filming there and legally being able to distribute it there since it's an American production. The US has a lot of different rules and regulations compared to everywhere else lol it's weird but Mark's trying to figure it out!
I didn't say it was in first place, I'm just meaning it's finally being recognized by Amazon and is being promoted because view counts!! I've never seen it on the home page until now.
well ofc it's good man, anything that comes from the Great Markimoo is fucking incredible, just like the video that was suggested to me on YouTube, https://youtu.be/O2xdgg2CKbM?si=eSzfPgvgPMkn_Iai

Fucking Amazing!! laughed my ass off!!!

also Thank you for the tips man, I'll save this for when I do watch the show! Much Love broski!! ♥️♥️
also I love your pfp 

⬜️⬛🟩⬛ BEETLEJUICE FOR LIFE ⬛🟩⬛️⬜️
maybe not this weekend, my dad didn't find it interesting but hey that's his opinion. it's cool. but anyway, I definitely will!!

have a great 2 months until the end of the year too!!
That's my hope, is that like he said, he has proven people wrong before and can do it again. He knows what his fanbase is capable of, because so many of us have shown up for him when he calls on us. I think most of us are so willing to help because he has given us so much (and I've only been a viewer for 3-4 years) that we feel that the least we could do is help him in the few times he has asked for it. Not to mention, when he does ask for help, there's often an incentive in there for his fanbase. That's not something he has to do either.
As they mentioned, it's on Spotify on Markiplier's "PowerWash Pals" podcast, which he hasn't promoted at all yet. It's the newest episode titled "The Truth About The Edge of Sleep". (This isn't the Distractible podcast with Bob and Wade)
Yah just double checked and its not coming up yet, yall gotta keep them streams going at night muted screen off so we can see it too, we counting on ya! :(
Hopefully they do, i've been dying to watch the show adaptation since a possible tv show was mentioned
He talks a little bit about it in the most recent power wash pals episode
Oh yeah, me an op gotta do a watch party now 😂
okay but like i already had a strong disdain for elephants and ugly things. my only solace is that my nightmares last night were centered around the red triangles. if i start getting elephants in my nightmares im throwing hands and crying.
The whale is supposed to be good though. They’re just now scary omnipresent dream gods
Ah good idea, didn’t think of it. Thanks
Lol yes we praise Mark for helping out, acting, and continuing to work on this lovely show RAHHH
🤞🤞🤞
GOD la vida loca passes through my brain every couple weeks and I love it, also you're welcome! I hope you enjoy it <33
YESSSSSS
We are dedicated that's for sure lol. I agree, there's truly a lot of the community who agreed to help out with the show because he's done a lot of great things, and has had a long list of quality videos and jokes over time that I'm sure a lot of us still use!

And ahh yes, some of the incentives over the years have been a bit... risque if I shall say 😂
Perfect, thanks! :D
I really think it's more than Amazon is being mean and not taking Mark seriously compared to "serious actors" in Hollywood, just because he started on YouTube. It could also be a views thing, but there's been a lot of pot stirring about Mark having an amazing view count when it first released! I seriously hope you guys can watch it soon, if there was a way I could personally help out I'd gladly do it. <33
Muted won’t count because supposedly they have something that detects that. If you have headphones (wireless or otherwise) connect them and put them on low and not in your ears. Place phone screen down if your sleeping and all is well
There's always the vpn idea, as long as you can find a safe one to use. Some of the better ones are locked behind a paywall unfortunately :/

But if you are able to find one, you might be able to use a free trial for it AND prime mayhapsss
I'll get the drinks if you get the popcorn 🤝🤝
oohhhh no YOU GOT THIS
You literally called my point by saying "scary" in that lol that's why I said it like that
No problem, get to sleedging brother!
there's alotta videos I wish I'd seen sooner from this man, but hey I'm watching as much as I possibly can. I love his vlogs and singing videos too. I'm sure I'll love it man.
Didn't mark already say that as long as it keeps up in top 10 all month it should hopefully go worldwide? There was a whole stream about it "opening doors" for worldwide release and iron lung getting more support from it.
I thought that was only on Spotify gotta be honest
Just confirmed it DOES count according to twitch, though that may not be the same as prime, since it doesn't count on netflix
Deal👌🏻 just let me book a flight 😂
I wasn’t arguing with you? You didn’t even make a “point” you said they “have a different vibe”.
Oh if you're a recent watcher, I'd recommend his videos on Content Warning, Raft, and the Hand Sim game modes that are with Bob and Wade! If you're alright with scary stuff, The Forest, Raft, and Phasmophobia are gold mines full of jokes and laughs. For a while, he's been pretty busy behind the scenes with his movie, so it'll give you time to watch a bunch of his vids!!
.... I'm meaning that Amazon isn't promoting it like they would other shows, so it isn't getting as many views as it could/should. Which is why it isn't in the top 10 rn.
Just yesterday or the day before, Mark posted another Powerwash Pals episode to his podcast (not Distractible, it’s just called “Markiplier” and it’s on Spotify) where he goes over the topic of international being “locked behind golden gates” and such.  Seems like the top 10 plan is definitely one of the factors that’ll help it become a reality, though.
The show is only on Amazon Prime.
WOOOOOOO 🎉🎉🎉
And I wasn't arguing with you either? 

My "point" was I said they have a vibe and I wondered if I should be concerned, which is usually something you say when you're unsure if they're good or bad, then you said they were scary, which proves the vibe I got from watching the show lol - "technically they seem to be chill, but they give off ominous vibes" 🤷

the plot of season 1 is (somewhat loosely) leading us to not know if we can trust anything or anyone, right? I didn't mean to make it come off as a problem against what you said dude.
oh no I've been around since his FNaF videos, also I've watched all of those videos except for Content Warning and Raft
Don't they only run adds for shows in the top 10 of the last month anyway?
It's not a show Amazon had a hand in, and it's not an import they paid for.
So, sadly, they ARE promoting it like other shows they just happen to add.
If it becomes a cult show, that's a different category of promo.
Yes, and amazon owns twitch, who's stance on mute is that it counts, though noone in prime seems to have made a statement
“Is usually something you say when you’re unsure if they’re good or bad” they’re good but “scary” as in the world/dave saw a whale as a big sea mammal, only to learn that apparently it’s a benevolent dream god, which is scary.
“I didn’t mean to make it come off as a problem with what you said dude” your previous comment
“You literally called my point by saying “scary” in that lol that’s why I said it like that” comes off as a condescending “you proved my point lol” when no, you didn’t make one. If anything I was agreeing with you and you came back twice now with a condescending comment “ 🤷” 
I’m not replying any more and would appreciate it if you didn’t reply back either. I don’t want another condescending comment in my notifications with some poor excuse as to why you think it’s fine.
OHHH my bad my bad haha. Also umm yes both are so funny, and they restarted Raft multiple times over many, many streams so there's a lot to watch!
If they do that, then isn't it a good idea for us to continue getting the show recognized/more views anyways?? That's literally the whole point of what I posted lol, I'm just showing that it's working and Amazon is letting the show be in that category. Mark straight up said people/productions turned him down because they didn't take him seriously. And now we're all proving they were wrong!!
I think Amazon would be in charge of what they display on their own website and streaming services, no? Unless there's a specific option to have ads catered to your preferences. I haven't seen ads about the show during the commercials on the site, even though it's now it most watched, and I have it in my recommended shows.
That’s not how that works but at least you tried
oh no worries dude you're cool

ofc they restarted

remind me of Chained Togther having to restart every course lmao
Yes.
What I described is why they haven't done it.
Because ads cost money to make, and self-promotion ads replace ad revenue.
god watching Chained Together gave me so much anxiety and so much anger at the same time lol 

I am very glad I have GO NO STOP to motivate me now
Hello, my name is welcome #2
I finished drawing yay.  Then I’ll draw it again and send it here!!
It’s…. perfect
Long Mark cannot hurt me
Why the long face
Hello everybody my name is welcome and markiplier back to fnaf!
https://youtu.be/_e9w-GtzEjg?si=xPs7gbCRcy5kJv8L
omg is that multipler?
Hes so portuguese
Is that MoistCritical's dad?
Welcome 2 what?! WELCOME 2 WHAT?!?!
Markiplier walks into a bar and the bartender says “why the long face?”
GUYS THEN I WILL DRAW MORE AND WILL POST IT, THANK YOU ALL FOR YOUR ACTIVITY 😅😊
Hohohohohoho! You're so Portuguese.
hollo ovorybody my nomo os morkoploror
Thats an alternate
You're so portoguese
Mark's alternate
Now we need welcome's brother, bagamum
Marketable Appliers
Heaven forbid. It’s Longiplier
an intruder
Why the long face?
it's.... BACK
Hello everybody my name is welcomplier
Who knows what the hose nose knows, speak beak.
"hello my name is Maaaarkiplier."
Optic fiber
I love it
Thank you
Why do I immediately recognize this as markiplier
  
... --- .-.. ...- . .-.-.- / -- -.-- .-.-.- / .-. .. -.. -.. .-.. . .-.-.-  
  
.... ..- -- .--. -.-- / -... ..- -- .--. -.-- / ....  
  
... --- .-.. ...- . .-.-.- / -- -.-- .-.-.- / .-. .. -.. -.. .-.. . .-.-.-
It's ugly wtf
Beautiful.
I met that guy in Singapore
you\`re genius
Did you do this in math class 🤔
keanu reeves - nice
More like #2702
My name a bagamum
get a job lil whigga
Was your art teacher MoistCritikal? (Please tell me u know the video I’m talking about 🤣)
Oh 😶
I want to say David Duchovny from The X-Files.
Hello everybody my name is jhausgsysbshshshsvvvvvvvvbbbvbbbbbvfffffbbbvvv
Did you create your Reddit account just for this?
This is amazing 🤩 chefs kiss
Make it longer.
top post oat wow !1!!11!!1
*it took me like three hours to finish the shading on your upper lip. It's probably the best drawing I've ever done*
This is quite funny, in a good way
"this is my dad"
Nose quite big
You are two steps away from showing the world what Markiplier would look like as a Muppet.
Tbh this looks so much like Mark it’s actually astounding!
The difference between markiplier and the original of this drawing is the same as the difference between the original drawing and this drawing
I didn't even need to know this was posted in r/Markiplier to know that that's Markiplier
What?
Long markymoo
I cant unsee Charlie’s Markiplier drawing
Relatable 😼
Get an upvote, get the frick out of my screen
My name is Bagemum
Fiber optic cable
Longiplier
The second coming of Picasso
Hello everyone my name is Marker Plier
smash
It’s Charlie’s dad!
Muppetplier
Looks like a version that would be called Mookaploo 😂
lol! looks just like him
Welcome
Noseplier
He can smell the milk in your bones
Real
Hello my name is maaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaarkiplier and I have a strangely large nose
[Markiplier](https://attackontitan.fandom.com/wiki/Cart_Titan)
make a longer nose next time
I remember that live stream 😂 
As someone who is an avid drawer, I love your art.
Is that the nose of 87
His name will be Morkaplier.
r/ihadastroke
need a /s
It's.... a....."Hello everybody my name is Markiplier"
So Portuguese
It’s… accurate
It's.... me
It's... in my basenent
Top to bottom perfect
SYMMETRY MY FRIEND
Long Mark:
r/Angryupvote
This was my first thought too lmao
Beat me to it.
r/hadastroke
The first time I watched this it took me until the "my dad" line to realise it was edited
Was just about to comment that too lmao
It's clearly multiplayer
Circus flyer
No, it’s Charlie’s dad
Welcome #2
I knew I was gonna see this comment
r/MandelaCatalog
And hchchchchchhh
r/ihadastroke
r/ihadastroke
It’s… sketchy.
It’s….going on the fridge
PuRPle MaN???!!!
STOP
Wait, why did I not realize it was edited until now
ITS EDITED???? no.. there's no way whole life has been a lie! :(
um actually its multipotentency
Here's a sneak peek of /r/ihadastroke using the [top posts](https://np.reddit.com/r/ihadastroke/top/?sort=top&t=year) of the year!

\#1: [If anyone knows what this says pls say it](https://i.redd.it/1bfmqn758vrb1.jpg) | [220 comments](https://np.reddit.com/r/ihadastroke/comments/16yalws/if_anyone_knows_what_this_says_pls_say_it/)  
\#2: [Found this in a YouTube video. thought it would fit here.](https://i.redd.it/o1572bd4r8fa1.png) | [114 comments](https://np.reddit.com/r/ihadastroke/comments/10p5qr9/found_this_in_a_youtube_video_thought_it_would/)  
\#3: [Where Do Babies Come From?](https://i.redd.it/u28bn8b1pkvb1.jpg) | [321 comments](https://np.reddit.com/r/ihadastroke/comments/17d4wik/where_do_babies_come_from/)

----
^^I'm ^^a ^^bot, ^^beep ^^boop ^^| ^^Downvote ^^to ^^remove ^^| ^^[Contact](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose/?to=sneakpeekbot) ^^| ^^[Info](https://np.reddit.com/r/sneakpeekbot/) ^^| ^^[Opt-out](https://np.reddit.com/r/sneakpeekbot/comments/o8wk1r/blacklist_ix/) ^^| ^^[GitHub](https://github.com/ghnr/sneakpeekbot)
It’s…alive.
r/angryupvote
It’s… A ME
It’s not. Markiplier is actually his dad!
It’s… still you.
A MARIO
It's... exactly what I needed
Even after all you’ve been through, it’s still you
It’s…a gift from god
[deleted]
It's....blyatiful!
Technically Undertale but yeah I get what you mean
AHAHAHA
It’s… my name is welcome
Mad Loser
When u wreck the enemy jungler so hard that at the end of the game they come up with this ahahahah funny thing is that i haven't said a single word to him during the game and he was just raging alone behind his computer

10322.48 euros is the correct answer.
" Sucking dicks makes great money :o "
Tell him you didn't know sucking dick paid so well
All that money and you can't afford a coach?
Ngl adding each other after game just to insult each other even more is unhinged and cringe asf imo
why not just quote a random amount higher than his and say dude your poor, u need the number for the food bank?
Makes all that money and still choses to play a free to play game.
Top laners are either the coolest or the biggest losers one has ever seen.
lmao how mad u gotta be to compare fking salaries 😂😂😂
I am 7 years old
10,322.48
I would’ve answered «obviously you can’t buy talent »
I had someone go off yesterday saying I was the worst jungler they had ever seen. He dropped maybe 2 wards, over extended and died a lot. He added me after the game and got incredibly toxic/shitty. 

It made me upset that I put up with shit like that, but saying I’d join a gangbang in all chat lost me my honor level 3 a week before the split and costing me all the shit I earned. 

Fuck the people in this game man

Edit: If English isn’t your first or second language the point I’m trying to make here is that in one scenario someone is clearly going out of their way to harass another player. The other is joining in an ongoing conversation. 

Why someone would then twist and perverse things to “you’re saying them to a 12 year old girl” is gross and weird.
I just recently had someone tell me he was a multimillionaire as a teenager and wanted to get on a discord call with me to talk about my job lol
"1v1 me Valo"


-dude I gapped in lane the other day
Bro's angriness is on a whole new level lol
Made all that money and still sucks at league
That is cringe as hell, image being so burnt that you need to say "your income" to feel better for losing in a game
Pretend you're a shark on shark tank, start asking him more information about his figures and product and make him an offer after.
10k a month yet can't buy yourself a pair of functional hands get gp q ingame is the only correct answer
That's a lot of money, damn.
"use some of that to pay for coaching, dog" remove friend
League is actually toxic, I spent so many years of my life on this game. Moved on to WarFrame, Fallout, found peace and harmony without rengar and kha’zix on my dick everytime I facechecked a bush without ward. My skin lost its acne and my money is high. This loser is is a loser. You are better than him.
"And still can't hire a coach? Git GUD KIDDO!"
,,So you're telling me you're rich and yet you're spending your days playing LEAGUE?''
Since when is income important in a game? And the appropriate answer would be : enough for your mother OF .
going band for band in league is diabolical
I just got jumpscared, my tag is also euw and i use the same icon lmao
Lmao! 🤣
average hustlers university student
Show the scoreboard. I wanna see how bad this loser got sh*t on to come at you like that.
We have screenshots buttons for a reason.... USE IT!
+25LP in last 20 mins. XD
just say u earn more and block him
He can buy a coaching and a psychologist with that income
You should've replied: 'I'm still in elementary school. 3rd grade.'
All this Money and no bitches , playing on a Better PC so skill issue
I was once poor too, don't lose heart like you lost the game.
me when I lie on the internet
In my experiences people who brag about how rich they are or how they can buy ppl on video games are almost always capping. Majority of the time they’re either broke or average. I have a friend who says that type of cringe stuff and he’s not doing bad financially, but he’s not ballin. My other friend who’s a millionaire doesn’t say anything in chat ever. Doesn’t even respond to ppl talking shit to him or making fun of him
“The LP I took from you”
Still not enough to win a game
"Im 13"
Flexing net income over a league match is crazy
"I'm 12 dude"
“10322.45 and keep your 2 cents. Imma keep this win over your head”
Isn’t that pretty low for a flex? Like 120k a year?
tell him its not net income if he has invest well over that in a shrink to remove the trauma for getting rekt in a kid's videogame
Guy is so insecure that he uses this response to cope with how badly you got in his brain.
Always add after a game, say nothing, record it and send it in as a ticket. Works everytime.
If you have time to play lol you don't have time to make that kind of mony
Oke, go buy 100 coaches with that money. Might actually win a match someday. 🤣
What is his username?
Id give him my P&L screenshots of last weeks trades.
The other day someone plugged their stream. I took a look and they were complaining at me the whole time. Despite me leading in kills and we even won the game. No idea what his deal was. He was doing bad but not like unsalvageable.
I’d give the number in lp.
all that money yet still a child mentally lmao.
I would have told him he could spend some of that money for coaching after beating his ass.


Or even better just send him a coaching link nothing else.
tell him to pay for some coaching if he is gonna play that shit lol
I once got a guy telling me i was a coward pussy and that I should fight like a man (i was kiting as lillia), he didn't like the in and out playstyle after the 5th kill i made on him
What a weird flex. I would have told him with that type of income you should pay for coaching so you can learn how to lane.
Too bad money cannot buy skills :(
Homie gonna act like shit didnt go down right before this. Words were definitely said by both sides.
+ (insert lp gain here) lp anytime I play against you
This is League at its peak. Especially when you won.
Some can't take a loss and have to cope this way.. it's like a toxic salt production.
Haha I would have said for 100 euros I'll train you to be better at the game.
Damn his mother's only fan be hitting the jackpot
Maybe hire a coach and get good then.
league lessons arent that much money man but youre gonna need to make more to buy a coach thats able to train you to beat me
And he still plays this game
"Mad cause 50% tax"
"nah I'd win"
Holy shit that is some small dick energy right there. Been a while since I witnessed such level of overcompensation lmao.
All that money and u cant hire a coach
The correct response is how much LP you got for the win.
Can’t buy skill I guess
People got so much ego in this game I swear it’s ridiculous.

Back when I was in Platinum3 I solo killed a Diamond4 player multiple times and this person told me this exact thing: “your lucky my team is nothing, but platinum players or else I would have won”

Congrats jackass! I also had platinum players on my team, what’s your point?
"10k and you didn't find a dime for coaching so you'd stop sucking ass at this game"
Why the fuck are you censoring its name?
I make 10x him and I’m fucking dogshit at LoL even after player a lot. So maybe there is an inverse correlation and this isn’t the flex he thinks it is.
The ego is real
Can he offer me some skin???
You always know a banger is coming when you get a friend request after a game lol. Funniest thing to do is accept & then block after around 30 seconds whilst they’re half-way through typing their essay.
Imsgine having so much money and still wasting time in league...

I wish i had money ;~;
“Euros? What are those.. like.. pesos?”
League is poison it brings the worst out of people.
You broke the rule already. When you get a friend request, the only acceptable thing to do is accept it, tell him he's ugly, and then block him before he can respond.
i killed a guy once and he literally called me parentless and posted his instagram profile in all chat.
You got pwned
Ever taken an L so hard you're that desperate for a W
That man was so hurt 😂😂
Guy added you to flex a middle class salary?
That’s “net” so before taxes. So that’s just over 120k/yr. That’s a respectable salary. But that’s 100% not “message a stranger and brag about it” money. A lot of people make that.

Edit: lol my dumbass swapped up net and Gross. 

10k net is significantly more then 10k gross.
if hes telling the truth hes winning at life and u seem salty
He still earning 10K more than you. He's winning in life
This man knows banter
“I don’t know I’ll have to call my accountant and see what the trust my grandpa left me made.”
That and mention you won your last league match
“10322.45 and keep your 2 cents. Imma keep this win over your head”
Exactly this!
1 dick 1 dollar, he on that hustle you know, on that grind
😂😂
It probably does????  I don’t know personally but
Trust me; it doesn’t. Sadly.
This one
damn
This one
I never do that myself but when people add me after the game I start acting like Ned Flanders, putting on a kindhearted Christian persona. Nothing makes toxic people lose their mind more than being told “I’ll pray for your soul”.
When someone adds me I always quickly accept, type “haha” or “you suck” and then immediately block them. It’s like 5 year old fighting in the sandbox behavior. I enjoy it lol
He send me request and i reject it, then he sent again and i rejected again, he sent ne more time. Thats why the chat starts with a "?" From me
If you leave post game lobby to add the other person you unequivocally lost the shit talk game.
But it's so fun. Whenever someone adds me after game it's a little treat.

Flame is fun if you don't take it seriously. I've made plenty of friends that start off with us flaming each other then we chill and duo/play draft.
Happened to me today, flamed all game then added me after the game... Just blocked him.
I always just block people who try to add me. I have no interest in arguing with someone over bs
I keep those as badges of honor. I’m at 21. I just never accept them
This. Weird ash 💯
Where my best league friendships begin, I can save them
I add people when they insult me at the end of the game and leave before I get to respond to them. I don't think they ever accepted the request. I wanna make fun of them being toxic while also being cowardly
Support main.
You won the best response!
Don’t forget, it is a very addictive game. When I bought my 3k$ pc I was still playing league 80% of the time
Money doesn’t change what games we play. I can afford everything in life and I still play league.
Depends if they win lane or not
I can get mad but I don't ever get this pathetic
Imo 7 is too young, i think 12 is a more realistic number
Andrew tate got the mind of this kids ahaha
Or 10.322,48 in germany :)
I had the same thing happen to me when I was playing amumu jg and they were playing au sol mid. They kept dying to briar mid (died twice 3 min in lol) and then complained that I was doing nothing (even though I got bot and top fed and caught drags and grubs as a result)

When he had nothing to say about my gameplay, he resorted to throwing personal insults like classic league fashion lol
Having to deal with shitty people doesn't mean you are free to be shitty lol... deserved punishment, remember its a kids game

And those shitty people get punished too some times, not like it benefits you or anything but they do
???? Bro ahahah maybe is the same guy, he was insisting in have a video call with me and my parents 💀
The funny thing is that this was just a normal game ahahah i was just having fun and laugh trying to tilt enemy top laner and he trying to tilt me. Meanwhile this guy was raging alone without saying a thing ahahahah i like to imagine him coming to his jungle with all his camps stolen and raging hard like "NOT AGAIN"
Ahahahah i asked him what he does and he refused to answer, saying that wanted to do a video call with me and my parents and he would show his receipts. I was like "wtf this dude has mental problems"
Ahahah i dont believe it was true, bro refused to tell me what he does i bet he just sign up in some crypto pyramid scheme and thinks is the next Andrew Tate
He was not that bad actually, i had games that were very worse for me, he just suicided stupidly some times and decided to split push top everytime dragon was up. Probably he was beeing flamed by his team or the fact that i was always stealing his camps were the reason to do this. My account is Grandmaster #2058 u can see the scoreborder there, is the last victory and he was xin zhao. He also sent this to my little brother that was playing with me (Sett) and my brother was like "Bro i'm only 15 i dont do money" 🤣🤣🤣
Ahahah u right
This was just a quick play game! Which makes all of his rage funnier 🤣
At some point i just ignored him and stopped responding. But the guy kept sending messages after hours of beeing ignored ahahah then i just sent him the link to this post and said "u famous now" and after he seen the message i blocked him
He sent the same message to my little brother that was playing with me that game. And my brother said "dude im just 15", then the guy replied "so 0 i assume", and my brother said "still enough to wreck ur ass" and blocked him 🤣🤣
Bet he was like "Let me make up something to make this guy feels as bad as i am feeling"
This was just a quickplay game! Not rank, wich makes is rage even more funnier
Where tf are u from that u consider 120k „low income“ ??
In my country atleast is very high income
Swiss people make like 80K euroes a year, and they're the richest mfs on the continent
Net income implies after taxes. So for the DC area that’s closer to 200k a year
*If you have time to*

*Play lol you don't have time to*

*Make that kind of mony*

\- beboldt

---

^(I detect haikus. And sometimes, successfully.) ^[Learn&#32;more&#32;about&#32;me.](https://www.reddit.com/r/haikusbot/)

^(Opt out of replies: "haikusbot opt out" | Delete my comment: "haikusbot delete")
You would be surprised, lots of fields you can make that kind of money working 40 or less hours a week.
Actually not, i talked a lot against enemy top laner because he was playing too well if u know what i mean ahahah but didnt said nothing against this guy neither him said nothing during the game, the photo is the start of the chat after i rejected his request two times
Actually idk 🤣🤣 was to maintain his privacy but now that i think about it doesnt make sense, it's DragonKing #EUW
It’s not ego, it’s insecurity
For what? I wish to have health, love, happiness and fun. Fuck money and materialism. And i would still playing games even if i was rich ahaha
Ahahah yea 1 euro is like 18 pesos
Now i know 😂
Thats a very high salary atleast in my country ahahah for curiosity where are u from?
Another US resident I assume? The screenshot clearly shows '#EUW'.


120k is an insane salary in most EU countries and very, very high in countries like the Netherlands
If he was telling the truth he wouldnt be trying to one up randos online lmfao
Lol he's the salty one not op 🤦🤦
Really not, just thinked was very funny so posted it here, atleast i laugh very hard. And is kinda hard to believe that a guy making so much money would be pissed for losing a normal game to the point of sending me this ahahah plus i am still studying what i love so i make 0 a month yet, nothing to be jealous for
"winning"
If its true yes, but i doubt very much
you're not winning if you end up having to go flex it to random people to feel better
Would 47c count as 47% ejaculation?
Ayyyyoooo .... Now that's sus 😂😂
I do that too. In other cases Ill send them a link to an OF page of some random person and tell them if they want to keep chatting they should subscribe to "my" page.
That does sound quite infuriating indeed.
I do very similar, but I gaslight them into feeling bad for their behaviour lol often they turn to "i actually didn't mean it, i was just tilted" lol
Everytime lol. Nothing gets them more tilted than being told that I could refer them to some good online therapists
I like this idea, I'm gonna start doing that lmao
They be so mad if they insult or toxic while u don't give a fuck and tell them ok xD
its the best form of entertainment, and then the best end to it is when they actually come to their senses and become human again. Makes you feel like a therapist lmao.
Last one I got I told them to go get some ice water, take a walk, walk away from the game a bit. I don’t think they took my advice :(
Oh shit I do this too. I also keep them on my friends list and make sure that they are doing alright. I just feel like people are going through things in life and its good to be there for people.
Good choice neighborino
I used to type out a full multi-paragraph insult before accepting and then immediately copy paste it before blocking
I add them and wait til they get into another game before typing something so they tilt and flame me instead of playing.
You can block
i do what I can. ;)
O no, I know. I have played it since season 3. I have 6000± hours in it.
Weird flex but okay?
I have to disagree.
They are being toxic to their whole team if they lose,
Or
They are being toxic to the enemy laner if they are winning. 

And then there are toplaners who don't even believe in chat's existence
He is flexing income. Income flexing is moot against a 7 years old. Plus the burn from losing to a 7 years old. He is not coming back after that.
Well what I’m referring to is, I was joking with the other team. Literally joking and not being a POS to other people. I reported the guy after they were such a massive POS and I do expect them to be punished. 


One is a bit more shitty than the other though, right? 

Trying to join in on a joke versus actively harassing someone
A kids game? So they you are free to act like that in "adult games"?
Just because you’ve never been to a gangbang doesn’t mean consent adults haven’t been 🤷‍♂️

At least there when we tell each other to get fucked we mean it
You know? It looks like you won. You won all of it.
Not the parents 😭😭😭😭😭
Nutcase lol. Most mentally sane league player
Took his LP and demolished his ego...a nice double kill outside of the rift. 😅
DC metro area 🫠
For games ;\~;
Yea I suppose that’s fair.  I’m in New York in the US where everything is stupidly overpriced and taxed lol…
Why is that? I figured in any first world developed country relative salaries would be the same. 

The euro isn’t THAT much more than the dollar. 

I find that really interesting.
Nah just the taxes he is paying because he is a good cock sucking citizen
I’ll be using this thanks
My ign is actually perfect for that. Sometimes they go on that tangent completely on their own and I get to just play along while they seethe.
Genius. I gotta do this. Thank you
Thats what I do lol
lmao you are evil. I love it.
Yea ahahah but never had happened nothing similar with me and as i said i didnt changed a single word with him during game i didnt even know he was raging, people often sends to play together. So i was like what this guy wants
how would you get a funny screenshot?
🤓[☝️](https://www.bing.com/ck/a?!&&p=36d86104a1b8d88dJmltdHM9MTcxNTkwNDAwMCZpZ3VpZD0yOGIyZjQwNi1kOTNkLTY2YjEtMTQxMC1lNzdiZDg5NTY3YTgmaW5zaWQ9NTIwNw&ptn=3&ver=2&hsh=3&fclid=28b2f406-d93d-66b1-1410-e77bd89567a8&psq=finger+up+emoji&u=a1aHR0cHM6Ly9lbW9qaXBlZGlhLm9yZy9pbmRleC1wb2ludGluZy11cA&ntb=1)
season 3 veteran here too, worst mistake of my life, i was addicted to WoW but at least i could manage better my time and was getting burned out of that game, stupid old me decided to start playing league as an excuse to stop being addicted to WoW, only for league to be even worse lmao
Then whats the point of ur comment
No
I main top and support, I also play jungle sometimes. Chatless games are a bliss.
I love those full tank toplane-is-an-Island matchups where both players just chilll and ignore 90% if the maps before min 15.
not really, but it makes it worse in an ambient where there's a high chance that there is a kid playing
yeah man, i hope somebody's 12 year old daughter finds out about your prefferences lol
I mean its 120k euros. So i didn’t think you would compare it to US income which is generally higher
Well in my country taxs are high af and the average salary is like 1000€ ahaha wish i lived in America
Indeed it's really interesting. In my country the average salary is like 1000 euros that's like 1000 dollars too. And things like cars and online stuff that i see is very cheaper in america compared to europe. But one thing in our favor is that for example my degree of 3 years cost 700€ for each year, and if u need to go to the hospital because of a broken arm is almost free. But if u need one specific operation things don't work very well and its better to go to a private hospital and pay.
Agreed. There are also some games that people are being supportive and actually communicate with each other.
I had one of these games yesterday, I wish I could frame the moment since it's going to be another 5 years before a game like that happens again
Everyone had already been very active in the game I was playing, no one spoke like a child. however with what I’m dealing with here in this odd situation I feel like I might be talking to a child
So you’re just going to ignore the point? Cool. Cool.
I'm ngl bro if you're going to be so upset if your child learns about mature subjects then just force them to turn chat off or don't let them play the game. It's not everyone's job to cater to your sensibilities
It's also net income not gross so it's at least 150-160k euros pre-tax, probably higher.
The only time I use chat is during champ selection amd honestly I've seen really supportive people there when I accidentally ended up playing Thresh on mid (when is autofilling mid when I put support a thing lmao) and whenever someone said they were a first timer with a champ.
because I don't see the point you're trying to make so I thought it was irrelevant (english is my 3rd language)
Ahh, I see I’ve wasted my time again. Well played.
Ethan Nestor posting about his relationship with Mark
Ethan did a Q&A on his story yesterday where he addressed his relationship with Mark being just fine and that not publicly speaking about each other does not mean they are on bad terms. 
Hello! Thanks for posting. This is a reminder about the rules. Make sure the post is appropriate and not to delegate or go against Reddit policy or r/Markiplier Rules. If this does break rules, please report it immediately. Posts that encourage raids on other subs or platforms is a bannable offense.

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/Markiplier) if you have any questions or concerns.*
I know it's not true, but in my head I imagine Mark getting asked, "Do you still talk to Ethan?" 

And Mark responds, "Ethan who? Doesn't ring a bell. Stop asking me about fictional people."
Mark has literally brought up stuff with Ethan on distractible not THAT long ago. Just because they're not hanging out everyday doesn't mean anything, I swear people need to chill
People just get paranoid and parasocial lol, I know Mark mentioned quite a few times about them hanging out and talking to so they definitely are still friends and such just not coworkers any more lol
Parasocial ppl think it’s normal to NEED to know every aspect of a person’s life w/out ever meeting them or knowing them. Stalker like behaviour frfr
Here we go again. 😂

If I learned anything from Jacksepticeye it’s stop asking about friendships. Just because they dont do content together doesn’t mean they aren’t friends. Everyone is just busy, schedules don’t collide yk?

Buuuut I dont know why this has been coming up now but I’ve been seeing a lot of angry people reflecting on how Mark ‘bullied’ Ethan through Unus Annus (RIP) so I guess people are also seeing that and assuming  they aren’t friends because of it. 

I personally never saw it that way but I guess I’m oblivious? Lol. But yeah. DON’T WORRY. Unless there was a CLEAR falling out they will always be friends that goes for all streamers, youtubers and content creators! 🤍
I feel this is something that should be shown to those that freaked out about the whole “Jack unfollowed Mark on social media” debacle. Just because there may not be a lot of contact between them on social media, doesn’t mean they don’t talk behind the scenes. They have personal lives that we don’t see, and it doesn’t mean we should be jumping to conclusions
Unus doesn't simply just stop talking to Annus!
Well, those who watch Distractible know that Mark (and sometimes the other boys) do reference Ethan from time to time. But regardless, I don’t think Mark’s personal friendships should concern anyone
I think Ethan gets asked if they're still friends a lot maybe from that bit they did where they were "beefing" with each other
It's one thing fans never seem to get 

They. Have. A. Life. Outside. Of. YouTube 

Just because you don't see them on screen together, that doesn't mean they've fallen out or some shit
Anyone who saw Mark pull a “that one guy who wants to be part of anything in a stadium so they plow through every row to reach bottom” when he was there at the creator clash to cheer Ethan would know they’re still definitely friends
Woah....Almost like we've been saying that since it happened yet you anxiety-ridden parasocial obsessesive "fans" seem to not comprehend it until THEY say it 🤦‍♂️
Also, wasn't Mark just on his channel around Christmas??? 😭 They do this with Seán too, like y'all Mark has said he's a pretty private person, social media/YouTube is not real life, just relax...
Mark and Ethan seem like the type to accidentally ghost each other for six months but then pick up right where they left off

Plus Mark went feral when Ethan won in the Creator Clash
Yes, Mark and Ethan clearly hate each other now. It's not like Mark went insane when Ethan won his boxing match or still references Ethan on Distractible.

They produced 365 videos together in a single year.  That's more videos than there are episodes of Distractible. They've collaborated enough!
Mark literally had to start a podcast just so he could make time to talk to his best friends. The man is busy!
It's like people have never had best friends or even friends before, people can go days or sometimes more without even talking to their best friends but are still friends no matter how little they talk.
I feel like this is another example of para social relationships online, akin to the Chapel Roan issue. Y’all, you do not have the right to know about the personal relationships some celebrities have with others just cause you’re a fan.  And asking questions like this CONSTANTLY may make them feel insecure with their own relationships
I wish jacksepticeye would do this
I feel bad for him even having to address this. The parasocialness (is that even a word?) from fans is one of the reasons I'm glad authors aren't required to have a YouTube channel to be successful 😂 I don't know how they deal with it
Person who doesn’t know any better “These YouTubers haven’t been collaborating together recently! They must not be friends anymore!”
We just need EEF to guest on hit podcast Distractible.
I really thought that was Matt Watson at first glance
The cropping made me deadass thought this was Matt for a sec
He's trying to keep their kissing sessions on the DL
I want more group chaos 😭
I really don't think it's anyone's business whether or not they still talk to each other.
if only people could understand this about Mark and Seán
Why is this still a thing people ask? 💀💀 
The amount of youtubers who have been asked "are you still friends with blah blah blah" over the years is CRAZY
Nothing will amaze me more than Ethan’s failed YouTube career
perfectly said
If the people on your screen aren't appearing on your screen at the same time, they are not friends. That's the rule. /s
Mark and:

Sean

Ethan

Bob

Wade

Literally anybody

Like yeah, I assume Jacksfilms and Mark are still tight, despite not talking publicly. I don’t imagine they talk on the daily but they’re definitely still chill

Speaking of Jacksfilms his most recent video confirms he is no longer friend with Tobuscus, a long time collaborator. He also mentions how Tobuscus kind of went politically off the deep end, and that’s part of the reason. Tobuscus has always suffered a bit mentally, so it was only a matter of time before he did it again, this isn’t the first time he went off
Honestly I find it annoying and ngl kinda weird when people say, “hey wheres___”, or, “have you talked to___?”. I get being curious but dear god
This kind of question falls under the "and friends" category for me.
Goes the same for the trio, sean mark amd felix
It baffles me how people just don't learn when content creators clarify these things. I guarantee that people will just continue to ask Ethan and Mark and Sean and everybody in their circle about this. People just want drama and are way too parasocial, it's hard to watch. Just let Ethan and them have some peace lol
Eef shows up on Momiplier's posts sometimes..people don't notice?
Pewdiepie had to address this years ago too, they did drift apart signigicantly but people convinced themselves there was *beef* between Pewd and Mark, and there never was. I assume these questions are from teens; as a person closer to their age(s), I can see how it's annoying.
I'm mean, he's not wrong. People are weird for asking these questions.
“Are you close yet”
Honestly if they just listened to Distractible they'd realize that Mark talks about hanging out with Ethan and talking to him a lot
Now to go slap Ethan’s response on the foreheads of every obnoxious parasocial twat that freaks out about whether or not him and Sean are friends anymore
BUT WE WANT YOU TWO TO DO SOME WORK TOGETHER
TALK THAT TALK,


**K I N G**
i really think they don’t talk much about each other in public anymore because all people talk to ethan about when they are is mark
They probably are thinking of his past friendships that didn't work out and start freaking out. People drift apart sometimes, y'know?
I’m more curious about Sean and Mark still being friends.
No one take this personally, BUT -

Isn't it possible - just a *little* bit possible - that he has a private life?

Not everything they say and do needs to be public. It's like ourselves with our friends - we don't announce our conversations to the whole world every time. They're the same way - just with a few million more followers than the rest of us 🤣
We just miss them together is all
I’ve seen so many “addressing my relationship with >blank<“ posts this year after people get cancelled for terrible stuff that this title almost gave me a heart attack
Honestly I were to ask this question I would
Ask this to the guys at SuperMega
Mark did a stream titled "ethan is dead to me"
Yeah but are they friends though.
This is absolutely gold.  I love these sarcastic silly Mark responses
This happened at least once after Unus Annus ended I remember lol
He did pull a "Nah, can't stand the guy. Ethan who? Friendship: over" gag on a livestream that WAY too many people actually believed.
The thing is people will believe that. In one of his videos Mark, clearly using a sarcastic tone said Ethan was dead to him cause Mark was talking to Ethan about doing a playthrough of a certain game (forgot which one) and Ethan did right after.
If youre able to go back youll see posts about people talking about it. The a week or two later mark, in another video addresses in the same tone as your comment and says something like “yeah were fine, none of that was real.” 
So this definitely sounds like something he would say.
He has a stream titled “Ethan is dead to me”lmao
Markiplier and that one other guy made a channel called Unus Annus is still one of my favorite jokes
"Nah fuck that guy." *Non chalantly keeps playing game*
I heard it.
Honestly, I wouldn't be surprised if that's his response. Just Mark being sarcastic and all
He’d be like: Ethan Winters? He’s dead, remember?
he would totally say that
I've seen some of my friends only a handful of times this year and we're still on great terms. Not everyone needs to be with each other all the time to be on great terms with them. 

It sucks for Mark that he's a public figure that his social life is under a microscope. He seems like he handles it well but yeah people need to relax about his social life.
Sometimes I think some people think YouTubers only exist when they're in a video that they're currently watching. So if Ethan and Mark aren't in a video together, they must not be friends and they must have missed something.

You know how sometimes kids think cartoon characters live in the TV and perform the show when you turn it on? I feel like it's like that.
I was like "yeah and they played powerwash sim together", then I checked and realized that was two years ago. Damn
People like making drama because it's the only interesting thing they have in their lives, what they don't understand is they make some stuff way worse than it is just because they want to be famous, it's like the sketch drama where it was blown way out proportion over some small stuff.
I imagine it's the ppl that don't listen to r/distractible or r/GMFST cuz I'm fairly certain that he mentions Ethan a few times on there from time to time.

Also this is going to come up somewhere else about Seán and Ethan since they ended the podcast.
Same thing applies to him and Sean and everyone freaking out when he hasn't uploaded for a few days
I never saw the bullying.  Mark came out and stated how he hates his anger, and some of it came off pretty harshly on Ethan during Unus Annus and he felt bad for it.  He apologized and everything.  He never intentionally meant to hurt or harm Ethan.
Those who think Mark bullied Ethan during UA clearly never watched the early content when Ethan first became friends with Mark and worked as his editor😂
Sean doesn't even follow his own girlfriend on Twitter, so, people are just jumping to all the conclusions about the situation.
This would make sense but it was so long ago I don't know how if people care THAT much, they're THAT out of the loop.  It's insane lol
Distractible?  Isn't that the one with I think Markiplier and Two other guys that talk?
i’ve hardly ever seen anyone point this out but they look so much alike sometimes
I wouldn't say failed, but I am shocked it didn't take off as far as at least like 1 or 2 Million Subs.  I also think Bob and Wade had the potential to shoot off.
Which was clearly a sarcastic joke but hey ho
read what he says 🤦🏼‍♂️
I read this as sarcasm but also he does explicitly say they are still good friends. Lol!
On top of that Sean and mark posted a marketing gimmick about not being friends and people bought it so fast yet they own a company together. My god it scares me that some of these fans form parasocial relationships with YouTubers and pry into their personal lives.
I think it was called egghead gumpty. Or something like that.
Mark saying something is dead to him is a pretty good sign he's not being serious. I think he did an entire video about a brand of canned corn being dead to him because they wouldn't sponsor him.
Oh this is *definitely* true. Kids growing up with YouTube have a harder time separating their own perception and experience of this entertainment as "real", and the reality that exists outside of their own consumption.
To be fair, Sean and Ethan made it very clear they were ending the podcast on super bad terms and were never speaking again afterwards
Here's a sneak peek of /r/distractible using the [top posts](https://np.reddit.com/r/distractible/top/?sort=top&t=year) of the year!

\#1: [I feel like I now need to post all my moon photos here. Feels right.](https://i.redd.it/8xsv4djhi3pb1.jpg) | [221 comments](https://np.reddit.com/r/distractible/comments/16mafz1/i_feel_like_i_now_need_to_post_all_my_moon_photos/)  
\#2: [(Important) My Response to Your Concerns Regarding My Treatment of Wade](https://np.reddit.com/r/distractible/comments/199gt5e/important_my_response_to_your_concerns_regarding/)  
\#3: [wHeReS tHe NeW ePiSoDe?](https://i.redd.it/0cvak08u4kab1.png) | [213 comments](https://np.reddit.com/r/distractible/comments/14t9p41/wheres_the_new_episode/)

----
^^I'm ^^a ^^bot, ^^beep ^^boop ^^| ^^Downvote ^^to ^^remove ^^| ^^[Contact](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose/?to=sneakpeekbot) ^^| ^^[Info](https://np.reddit.com/r/sneakpeekbot/) ^^| ^^[Opt-out](https://np.reddit.com/r/sneakpeekbot/comments/o8wk1r/blacklist_ix/) ^^| ^^[GitHub](https://github.com/ghnr/sneakpeekbot)
I listen to distractable weekly and I can confirm mark mentions Ethan on almost a weekly basis
Yeah that’s what I figured but… The people these days yk…?
I KNOW That’s why I just rolled my eyes and I’m like

Woke community.

Cause half the time they go into detail about how ‘WRONG’ it was. I can’t-
It could very much just be Sean distancing himself from social media and only speaking to friends offline
Yeah it's crazy. They both have their own channels, can't always hang out
Yeah! Todd and Bald, I think?
Distractible? Don't you mean Markiplier and friends?
I knew it was all a joke but there are some people who don't know this
But are they still friends.
That's great! But are they still friends, tho.
It was. I remember watching Ethan play it and talking about how Mark had been wanting to play it while he was doing his intro
Del Monte Baby! Yeah, just him being sarcastic, because the story is true i believe, but he still enjoys it.
Where did you get  that info? I cant find anything about beef or bad terms betweem them
Even if that's true, be prepared for ppl still asking.
An absolute jumpscare moment 😂
It's like seeing people complain about the way mark and bob treat wade 

Like, they are good friends, these people would lose their fucking minds if they seen how me and my close friends all treat each other 🤣
How... I will never understand how people attribute literally everything they don't like to "wokeness."
Rent free
What do you think "woke" means?
That could very well be it, but people got all up in arms about it and started freaking out about it. But, we're not entitled to the details of their private lives. Maybe they are just only speaking offline. Maybe they did have a falling out. But people shouldn't be harassing them about it, either. I can only imagine how many comments and messages any of them see on a daily basis about this same, tired, topic.
I think it's called Distractiplier now.
Exactly, I think some people may have just looked at the title and watched the beginning?

Or read about it somewhere instead?

Because it was very clear sarcasm
it says in the text ‘yes, we’re still good friends’
Idk why you're getting downvoted lmao this is great.  

I don't think they are though, to answer your question.  I think Ethan only said it for the media 💃
Right. Yeah, I remember that now. That was a good video. And so was Mark’s.
I'm joking because the first thing they said in their final episode is that they're not ending their friendship and that they're not going to stop making videos together because they knew people were gonna start panicking thinking they're breaking up lol
Nice! But are they still friends? (I can do this all day )
Yeah, for those of us who haven't seen it, it's not as clear lol - maybe consider tossing a /s on the end for we poor souls
Happy birthday to me 🎉
It's tagged meme cause my life is a joke 
Playing league on a birthday is not a good idea
ik this is joke post but u are playing way too many different champs
fella playing yorick jg

  
game says " free pass to losing q"
Tilt queue - a classic
I'm sure all the people on your team whishes you a very happy birthday
I don't know what's worse. Playing LoL on your B-day, the loss streak, or not knowing about windows+shift+s/PrtScrn. 

Bravo, truly.
M8 you are playing random champions instead sticking to a pool, you are not even checking the right builds for these champions, you are switching roles randomly, you are playing 9 games in a single day, or in other words tilt queuing, so you dont even have the basics of a healthy mentality around climbing, ontop of all that, you are probably not reviewing your games.

You even posted this right after losing a game, so you dont even take breaks to reset. You literally made this post tilted out of your mind.

This is not an easy game. If you want to improve you need to take it seriously. Second, and probably more importantly, you have to change your mentality, you cant lose a game and then tilt queue trying to regain "the precious lp" when it doesnt matter for your improvement at all. Stop focusing on wins and loses, and start focusing on your skill level.
Red carpet match history. Deserved for playing 11 diff champs in 20 games when you’re not cracked like Nisqy or someone
Are u ok man ?
O shit ye we are about to get a new serial killer
Aw sorry man! Hope you had a good birthday regardless!
Happy late birthday bro. I think taking breaks after a few losses saves mental and can help break loss streaks. Good luck in your climb soldier
I was about to play League, but this snapped me out of it. Thank you for your sacrifice 🙏
I feel like my account has been ruined from all the reports I get as jungle.
too many champs, stop coping, go get some hoes and find your onetrick
To everyone talking about different champs:

He’s not losing because he’s playing different champs, he’s playing different champs because he’s losing. Clearly you’re a one trick morde, got tilted, tbought it was probably time to try something new and got tilted even harder. This happens to everyone, take the L’s, eventually you’ll end up with a screen all blue instead, it just happens.
Bro made a joke and everyone here is flaming him and telling him how to play the game. Holy that's gotta be annoying/frustrating.
I have to be honest here, you seem to perform rather bad atm. Stop playing all those different champions, and concentrate on 2-3 champs. I know it can be annoying when you have a cold streak, but either take a break or reevaluate your approach. Because this clearly aint working.
That champ pool
wtf is your champ pool. looks like legit shit
League was kind enough to bust out the red carpet for you !!

Too bad it had a little stain of blue there but nevertheless a carpet fit for a KING
it's over for you
I can give you free win as birthday gift
You play 3 hard off meta junglers. Just stay to 1 champ which is A tier and above and you’ll climb
Happy birthday, you got a win!!
Just pick1 or 2 my guy
either you stop playing for a while or play normals to clear your mind.
Look at that rumble ult
Brother eewwwwwwww
Fill to gold?
If every one of those was an ff15, you spent 4 hours in one day losing. Take a break for like 2 days man, play something relaxing.
Bros playing twitch Jgl😭
Damn after a 2nd whooping on morde jungle id probably stop playing morde jungle.
-30 in silver is CRAZY 🤯
just a lane gap, hold that head high king
Skill issue
I prolly wouldn’t play on my birthday.
My bday was on the 8th. I played exactly one game and then stayed off. Also you play too many champs.
Screenshot so blurry I can’t even see anything
After the 6th lost game in a row. Why do keep queueing up now I take "crackhead" as an answer but not as an excuse xD
Also screen print dam, ultra potato quality pic
Gaming on your birthday ? Are you ok bro? I'm worried about you ...
Ah the classic “I’m lose streaking on my main surely I can go lock in whatever and carry.” Works every time.
bro is the elo hitman
You feeling okay?
Shout out to the like 5 people who said happy birthday I didn't really have a great day but that's life and thanks for your helpful insight to the last 20 people who told me to just get good
SAMIRA!!!
Bro just plays whatever
don't play a new charcter every game, it's not urf. you forget your cooldowns and playstyle, stick to 1-3 champs
Happy Birthday mate hope you find another support to carry your Samira!
You play like 37 different champions
try yorick mid
Yippieeee
Something tells me you are braindead, please go play norms if your going to ultimate bravery in champ select.
I like that your main fill character is yone probably the lowest win rate fill character in the game feels good
Victory sandwich
can u play a shittier jg?
You share your Birthday with my Dog. 

Maybe you share the same skill level in League of Legends, as well
It’s cool man I’m on a pretty nasty lose streak too, something like 1/7 right now. It happens, it’ll turn around. Just try to stay positive and not take baggage into your next game.
Bro I’m on the same sort of loss streak. Makes me want to die.
Who TF plays vayne jungle
Never thought someone would suck at this game so bad.
I can’t even get a loss streak like this on my deboost account
Just gangplank q irl at this point
Morde isn’t a jungler, I don’t know what you’re expecting , unless that’s the meme ?
You better stay off it today!
true, brother
happy (league-free) birthday 🥳
Honestly as someone who was hardstuck silver for like 2-3 seasons I played EVERY champ and every role. That was lets say not ideal because i was underperforming and losing a ton, BUT it gave so much information and knowledge about every champion that eventually all dots connected and I then shoot up from low gold to diamond2 in one season kind of tracking all cooldowns and aware of all champions in my head. Next following season I hit 80. Challenter as adc. Its perfect to know when to go in as adc and to track all cooldowns thrown out in teamfights and you cant do that unless you have the feeling of every champion. So lets say its not good in short time, but long time point of view its best way to become good well rounded player to switch champs around.
Honestly this dude mains morde/hec but after losing that many games you go on tilt. You can say "oh don't play when you're tilted" hindsight. None of us stop when we are tilting
And roles
Nothing wrong about it. If he isnt first timing them, and fills the team needs, its all fine


Edit: pretty funny how you low elo people think not one tricking or not playing one or two champs only is bad. If you are a good player, you are gonna perform well or atleast decent on every champ. Ofc you arent gonna perform as good as one trick, but it still isnt reason to blame him losing for playing different champs every game. But maining aside, yorick or morde jg isnt a good pick overall.
Yorick jungle is great.

But most players don’t understand Yorick to begin with so that’s a factor.
Eh. Yorick jungle is actually a very viable off meta pick in the jungle because the way his ghouls interact with camps. There have been a few high elo players who have tried it and liked it. (Broxah and Slogdog)
Morde is not even his most played champ
Or just play Udyr, he can fill every role. AD/AP/Tank/Bruiser/Assassin.
Idk about none of us
Yeah as you can tell from the huge loss streak it’s working great! :D
Champ pool is very important in every elo. Even in masters+ it’s more sustainable to play 2-3 champs you’re really good at to improve everyone’s game quality rather than playing ten champs you kinda sorta know how to play.
It's not just the large number of champs, he is playing nearly every role.
Yeah, low elo people got it into their heads that the only way to climb is to play with a single champion or with as few as possible, and it's not. It's just the easiest way for those who are worse at the game.
One of the top tips for league is to limit your champ pool and it's about as intuitive as tips go. You spend less time thinking about how to play the champ and more time thinking about how to play the game. Muscle memory isn't a fake concept.

Always funny to see someone make a salty edit bc they got downvoted tho
It can be good yea. Maiden and ghouls can leash, push lanes, and deal a phat amount of dmg
I mean still nothing wrong with that. He never said “Why am I losing all my games omg I deserve to WIN”. So I see nothing wrong with posting a silly loss stream even if you’re not playing efficiently
Yep playing too many champs is bad. I switch roles and champs constantly because of boredom and my climb suffers from it. It’s why I will never get diamond.
Yeah, definetly thats the reason him losing. His stats werent bad at all in many games.
Yes it is, but there is also nothing wrong with playing many champs. Ofc it doesnt make climbing easier, no reason to blame his massive lose streak. Imagine that you might get 10 loses in a row, playing your otp as well.
Dont worry. I dont mind getting downvoted by emerald 4 one trick hardstucks(or even lower pathetic elos that should not have rights to tell you why you are losing games). I said the truth and not my problem that it hurts low elo people.

Jankos went for toplane a few games and destroyed otps he played againts. If you are a good player, you will win on all champions. In this game there is something more than your muscle memory. It is called macro.
Not if you dont care about climbing. If you want to climb you should stick to 2 role and play max 2-3 champs per role.
"If you disagree you must be lower rank than I am" is SUCH a league player thing to say.

"I have one example of a PROFESSIONAL PLAYER being better than randos in an off role for A FEW GAMES so my point applies to everyone."
Or you would rather improve at a wider variety of champions/the game in general and/or it's more fun to you. Not everything is about elo and in the long term playing more champs will probably make you a better player anyways.
Because the truth is that 90% of lol community is indeed a low elo. And thats not my opinion, thats a fact.

You can call it however you want. A big ego, classic league thing to say or whatever. The fact is that good player plays good on any champ. You denying it just proves my point. Peace.
That is what I said? If you don't care about climbing sure that is cool, but if you don't care about that why u play ranked in the first place? Go for quick play / normal draft. It is exactly the same game minus ranked systems, so you don't lose time of people who are actually trying to climb
I'm not denying anything I'm just saying you don't really have anything to say other than assuming you're ranked higher and therefore right. Weird mindset, lots of assumptions, and overly confrontational. You embody the league community.

Peace
Obsessing over elo is the only way to play ranked. Very normal approach.
if you dont care about rating, then why even playing ranked?
What the first person is saying is ofc the most 'efficient way' to climb is to play a small number of champs, but then you end up only good at one champ for the ELO you are at. Instead if you play a plethora of champs then you might not be at the highest rank possible for you, but you know your skill on MANY champs is increasing. I would rather be diamond on many champs than masters on one but that's just me. Other might like the other way and so it's up to the person what's "right".
Because you want to compete at the highest possible level for you?
"Why does my jungle not gank when I tell him to"
I originally made this post in a comment response but I'm just going to post it as a thread for everyone because I find it therapeutic and there's some useful information.

"Why does my jungle only gank after im gone or dead instead of when I ping"


Laners get gold and exp that walks to them in a straight line. By manipulating your wave and being careful with your trades, you can always guarantee you get exp at a bare minimum and a portion of your gold.

Junglers conversely have to path around the map to their camps and sink time into getting their gold and exp, albeit less than laners. A full clear is something like 524g on the first clear, then 344g every clear when blue/red are down. (5min respawn) This doesnt count jungle treats which are 20g for every 1 minute of game time if you cash them in. So assuming you clear camps on cooldown every 2min 15s you get 384g on a normal clear, and 564g on a clear you get both of your buff camps.

Laners by comparison get 562.5g for the same level of time investment assuming you CS perfectly.  I also rounded this number down, but the difference between a wave at 1:30 and 15min is 22g, it increases slowly per wave. Average gold per wave starts at 125g.

Experience wise a solo laner with no one soaking exp, just standing there in range of the minions will hit level 6 in 9 waves around the 6 minute mark.

Conversely a jungler will have to clear their jungle 3 times while timing the camp cooldowns to get it by 7 minutes unless they soak exp from other sources, which is HEAVILY reduced until 20 minutes. 70% before sharing reduced by 7% every 2 minutes. By design they will always be underleveled without extra exp from many successful solo ganks or hard optmization.

Now here's the kicker. All that extra bullshit above needed to get compareable gold/Exp to laners, and you can straight up lose half of it or all of it because you died or stopped to gank a lane or fucked up your clear sequence, got counterjungled because you walked on a ward, or your Yasuo decided he deserved your raptors/krugs more than you did.

So when you die while your jungler is halfway into a clear or want him to stop his sequence because "lol theyre SO LOW its SO FREE" and then he comes and it doesnt work out. Hes losing much more than you are, his whole world is dictated by a strict fucking mathematical clusterfuck of optmization that doesnt even involve ganking your lane. So the best thing you can do is the smallest amount of planning and make the gank as high a success rate as possible or fight during the 30 second window when clear is done so its not cucking his whole game.

When you die, you miss a couple waves and another one will always be waiting for you. When jungle dies, Udyr takes all his fucking camps and now team is spam pinging dragon up in 20 seconds with no vision while hes 2 levels down because he decided to sacrifice his paycheck for you to miss your binding on the "ITS SO FREE, GUARANTEED IF YOU COME" while you're 60 mana 20% health under turret while your laners are 100% with all their cooldowns up

Should be upvoted. OP is right, this is one of the main things that laners don’t understand about Jungle. 

You can usually CS well in lane without investing much in the way of cool-downs or mana. In jungle if you don’t invest that 12s cooldown 80 mana ability your clear is shit and you’re losing scuttle and the gank after first clear. So abandoning a camp which is worth 1/3 to 1/2 your xp bar and a good chunk of gold *after* you’ve invested your cooldowns and mana, just for the slight chance you can get your laner a kill or save your overextended laner feels like dogshit and mathematically is putting you behind.
OP actually posted something of value that low elo laners have no concept of and the first 2 comments are troll ass trash. This part of the issue with LoL. You fucks are real pricks.

Good job OP, cause most laners don’t understand why we can’t skip 3 camps to cross map to save top laner from their ego 1v1 that could have waited 30-45 seconds
Also, in short,

"Why does my jungle only gank after im gone or dead..."

Simple solution: Don't die or leave lane and you will get more ganks when you are alive and in lane. lol.

Flashbacks to my top laners taking an aggressive all-in 3 seconds after I start gromp.
It's such a simple concept. If you don't think of the jungle as a lane, you won't ever understand.

&#x200B;

Much like it's folly to expect a laner to abandon a wave about to crash in to tower, it's silly to expect a jungler to abandon lane when there's a wave there to be taken. 

&#x200B;

If the enemy laner could kill your minons and take the gold, would you ever leave the lane with minons up? Of course not.
Wait so if I’m understanding this correctly, after the 20 min mark, I get full XP and gold from any minions I kill?
„I don’t take advise from players about my role if they don’t know how my role works“ and then fully mute is usually a great response
[deleted]
I'd have explained it differently.

My jungle-pathing is based on the function: reward(in gold and XP) * success-chance / time-investment.

My camps have a low but steady reward. If I path from one side to another they are nicely lined up for a relatively low time-investment and a very high success-chance.

The success-chance of a gank dramatically reduces the further away the gank is from my current location. Simply because the current situation is likely not the same when I eventually get there.

So while the reward for a successful gank is pretty decent, it is something with a high time-investment and uncertainty.

If I'm done with all my camps I have a timing-window in which ganks become the best thing I can do for a short while despite the long travel time and high uncertainty.

If the situation on the lane looks good for a gank I'll go for it then. But once I have shown myself it must succeed quickly.
If it doesn't succeed immediately, I can't stay there to try again. The reason for that is that by showing myself I have given the enemy jungler the information where I am. That information he can use to punish me. For example he can path to my respawning camps before I can or start an objective on the other side of the map since he knows I won't be there to contest it. Or do a gank with a much higher success-chance on the other side since he knows I can't be there to counter-gank it.

Another thing that I often see pinged is objectives the enemy currently is likely doing while there is absolutely no prio or vision for us.
I'm like: Yeah, I too think they're doing it. They can because they have worked for it and gotten prio on both adjacent lanes while their jungler was pathing there.
Like what is the expectation? Do they want me to try and steal it 1v3?
It’s precisely the reason I’ve stopped ganking bot lane and only go in for a kill if it’s the free’st thing in the world. There have been one too many times where I’ve come to gank and the adc and support just sit there drooling trying (and failing) to cs, leading to dying because apparently they’re deaf, blind, and have zero map awareness. I ping that I’m coming, I pincer behind them because they’re practically under our tower, I go in, and the Bot laners do nothing. 

I love ganking top for the exact opposite reason, in my experience most top laners are grateful for even one successful gank as that’s usually all they need to get ahead in a meaningful way, and they are much more receptive to helping with grubs/herald or helping shoo the enemy jungler out of my camps. 

I gank bot lane which through sheer luck and even a little skill results in 2 kills, Thing 1 and Thing 2 decide that’s a great time to get a plate when drag is up. I spam ping drag, try desperately to get it before enemy team recoups, enemy jungler chases me off of the dragon and now enemy team not only gets dragon, but 2 kills because of course they were still trying to farm under tower. 

So ya, sorry if junglers aren’t exactly chomping at the bit to win lane for laners.
One other little experiment I wanted to post to sell my point on what laners can accomplish being careful and waiting for ganks.

[https://imgur.com/a/jfszOD4](https://imgur.com/a/jfszOD4)

This is a game I played earlier where I queued my favorite and most played champ Evelynn in the top lane, with the goal of just soaking as much EXP as possible even at the detriment of kills or CS. As a disclaimer this is on my alt in a silver 1 game, my main is currently in emerald and I've taken it as high as D2 last season, so obviously your mileage may vary and I'm an experienced Eve player. Still, this Teemo was extremely aggressive and tried to zone me off the wave, poke me under turret, and push out as many plates as he could despite my commitment to non violence. He even killed me a couple of times.

All I did this game was last hit what he'd allow me,  clear waves that hit my turret, missing plenty. In exchange I stayed in EXP range and tried to die as little as possible. I received exactly 2 ganks, one of which was just my brand walking up to the middle of lane, missing pillar of flame and taking half the wave before giving a thumbs up and recalling under my turret. Eventually my turret died, I backed up to farm under T2 and continued to soak EXP and clear safely. Here's the results:

>At 10 minutes I was down 32CS

>At 15 minutes I was down 46CS

>At 20 minutes I was down 59CS

>At 25 minutes? 45CS

>At 29 minutes just before the game ended, I was only down 27CS

Guess how much gold me and Teemo made in the end?

Teemo 400GPM 11,701g

Evelynn 392GPM 11,477g

I did next to nothing that game but push turrets and CS when I could and equalized my opponent. Just by being a little bitch and not stressing over last hits. In the end I missed maybe a wave and a half's worth of gold and would have continued trending upward had the game gone on longer.

TLDR don't let keeping up with CS god rule your mind and bait you into dying as a laner. Instead let the EXP god rule you instead. Gold is temporary, levels are forever.
The sad thing is that, with knowledge of junglers in general, I have a decent notion of where the enemy jungler is during it's first clear. 

So then I ping my top to go back at 3:15 because the enemy JG started bot and should be level 4 with a free 15 second window for a gank top.

But they'd rather die than miss one cannon minion. 

So they get ganked and spam ping me.
A gank being good comes from a combination of a lot of different factors. In general ganks come down to decisions like the pressure change, invaded, Counter ganked, Objective timers, Back timers, Camp timings, Power spikes, Matchup, wave state and summoners. That's before you get into spell cooldowns for both laners, mental state of the lane, vision, setup, tempo cost as well as platings and potential gold gain...

90% of these aren't relevant to the majority of ganks but it's the jungle's job to discern between good and bad. I'm not gonna come out here and tell the dia top lane that his wave management is shit and he needs to do X thing, it's arrogant as a jung to assume so why do laners think they can judge the gank better?
I’m super new to league and I play jungle. I’ve experienced this a bunch just starting in comp. 

I had chat on for one game, no thanks lmao. 

So I mute everything. I only get pings, and I turn them the fuck off if someone drops pings on my head. 

Fun game but toxic as fuck off the jump as far as the community goes.
Just add comms and I could explain this lol. I understand laners don’t know how jg works 90% of the time just like as a jungle main how I don’t know how wave states or 99% of lane matchups work. For a game that wants community and inclusion I will never understand why they perma nerf communication in game.
I 100% agree with you, i just word it in a different way: "i as the jungler am neither your pet nor your slave. And if i cant' trust you to be fine on your own lane wolithout my constant supervision, i will definetly not take your pings into consideration."
Seriously, i get so annoyed by this. Most laners seem to think that any jungler that doesn't gank the moment they think they see a gank opportunity is trash. Yes of course, it is definetly my bad decision to not gank the low life lvl 6 kassadin on mid lane when i am a tryndamere who has no cc, no real ability to gap close over that distance and you have no cc that is even remotely sure to hit. I should definetly abandon my clear, that i as a tryndamere need to scale up and be the menace i can be late game. I should definetly waste at least a minute to go midlane, wait there for the moment kassadin doesn't hug his tower, only for the small chance that we actually manage to kill him over the short distance he needs to get into tower range.

And the thing is, it's not like i am a jungle main. I'm an ADC main, and it still annoys me if my top laner decides he needs to spam ping jungle for not ganking.
If I skip to camps to rescue you and we both die bc I’m under leveled and you stink, game is over.
I am a low elo jungler. Mostly what I find to be the biggest issue, is the absolute lack of map awareness. 

Maybe I'll clear bot side jungle and then gank for a kill attempt.

Then I have a few options: Walk to my next camp, Go back and buy depending on how much money I got, Stick around bot Lane And kill the other players that thought I left.


Either way, I'm nowhere near top Lane. Suddenly I'm getting pings telling me they want me to gank And I'm literally on the other side of the map.

It is also super annoying when everyone expects that it is your responsibility to take objectives. Everyone is notified when Crugs are killed or when dragon is killed. That is information that makes a big deal. You know exactly where that champion is when that happens. Bow spot Lane champs just backed, their jungler is at Crugs... Take dragon. It's free!
Why are ppl mad at this post, its literally a plea from a jungler just trying to politely educate low elo laners. If you have no concept of what OP is even talking about how bout hit the practice mode and watch some tutorials before another reddit doom scroll, yall just be saying anything about anything. Op is right, if ur a laner you HAVE to learn the jungle pathing and optimization of BOTH junglers so you are safe from ganks and are able to help your jungler contesr objectives, gank a lane or protect them. This is a TEAM GAME, stop acting like the main characters please
In low ELO it's not worth ganking in a lot of situations. "Just get their sums" and so what if we do? Your pressure/state will still be the same bc the majority of people can't punish no sums.


If a jungler shows bot lv3 you can 90% of the time expect their top jg to be gone. Which puts them even further behind if they couldn't secure a kill.
while I agree, I just wanted to add:

* many times you want to skip camps as a jungler for tempo
* catchup exp is a thing that is turbo busted for junglers
* as a junglers if u full clear and not gank u are on spawn at dragon or grubs (5min) lvl 5. grubs(1st) give a ton of exp.

so you can gank even with 'suboptimal' clear while leaving out camps as a jgler, however as you pointed out that would only be viable if the lane state offers a good success chance

being behind as jungler (vs udyr in your example) sucks hard, especially if then the enemy jgl also gets help from his laners/supporter with pressure, traps and warding. but if its just a low elo game where only the jgler comes to annoy you and the rests sits afk in lane you are fine. in higher elo your team 'should' do something as well to stop the bleeding a bit, but ya know..
I definitely agree that laners are not aware enough of the clear and ping assist while junglers are only halfway through their camps. However I don’t agree on the math because laners will never get full CS so they don’t get as much “free” gold that a jungler gets. I also think alot of people live in the now and not future. Could you skip gromp to help your laner get ahead which could translate to not getting invaded or easy objectives later? Not saying you don’t do this but the way it is written sounds like you are in the mindset I’m going to get mine now always and everyone has to sacrifice so that I don’t have. Not sure what the percentage of that is the right play but I know it isn’t 100% always full clear take your camps on cooldown and never skip a camp to gank.
Also to add to this if you want your jungler to gank you need to manipulate the wave so the lane is a good spot to gank when your jungler is gonna be on that side of the map.

For example, if you are a top lane and your jungler is starting bot to top that means gank timers are gonna be around 3:30 (first scuttle), then roughly every 2:30-3 minutes after (for example they gank top just after 3:30, they recall and head towards bot for gromp spawn or a bot gank) they would be clearing upwards.

But if you don't make the lane good to gank at that time junglers don't have time to wait around for 30 seconds for the wave to get into a good spot. Or if you make the lane good to gank at the wrong time jungler gonna be on the opposite side of the map.

Gotta look at how your jungler is pathing and time the wave for when your jungler is on that side of the map.
I thought I was going to have to drop some knowledge with that title but then he just uno reverse carded.
Honestly the most frustrating thing when I'm laning is a jungler doing krugs or wolves while my wave is being pushed in. They could go to the wave and take the gold and stop the other laner from taking a plate or two. I couldn't give a shit about not being ganked unless I'm spending my whole lane being pushed in by an easily gankable idiot. I play sion so I'm pushing the wave and looking to be a distraction anyway.
I once had a run duoQ'ing with a friend of a friend. I have always been gold/plat but haven't played much and placed into Silver 1 and he was Silver 4. 

I am a jungle main myself but he mains jungle so I played top, as I enjoyed learning some new picks/just having fun whilst cruising up to my normal rank.

His mechanics were very good but he fundamentally couldn't look at a map whilst clicking buttons to farm a camp.

I would tell him in voice comms and our team would ping where we would see their jungler etc.

His main complaint was that people don't wait for him to come gank and die beforehand but to be a good jungler you have to do 1 of 2 things and do it well. Either power farm and objective clear and ignore your lanes and carry later. Or sack your farm to get a lane ahead WHEN the time is right.


E.g. Once instance I traded a kill for a kill when I got ganked. Totally hadn't warded good enough to avoid a gank so no blame for jungler but their jungler freezed the wave for the enemy top at his tower.

I said to my duo hey i need your help to unfreeze this as I think I may die. He was on gromp by top and I even said you don't have to come into the lane. I also don't mind if you take the farm but I feel like their jungler is still here and wants to rekill me as soon as I try and break the freeze. He said wait let me farm my camps and proceeded to full clear his jungle. I sat in the Bush getting exp but no farm for 2 waves and then lo and behold I got ganked. 

My jungler said to me 'why didn't you play safe'.

I couldn't have been any safer other than not be in lane. No exp and no farm = out of the game.

My jjngler could have given me 10 seconds of his time and still full cleared and everything would have been fine but he didn't understand lanes at all because he just plays jungle so never has to manage minions. (That's why I practice lane).

He can't understand why laners ever extend and can't understand freezing or how to stabilise a losing lane or extend a winning lane. He shows up after a full clear and forces a gank that can work in Silver but otherwise doesn't. Doesn't pay attention to summoners and doesn't know where the enemy team is. Just that HE is now here and thus expects you to engage
Yoiu should post this in all the "mains" subs. It's very clear and understandable.
What gets me is "if our jungler could get a fucking objective" , meanwhile, the only reason I don't have it is because bottom is dead everytime dragon is available , OR I tried to get it when our bot had prio, pinged for help to secure and then get closer in by mid and/or their jungle
Yea maybe just dont let your laners get dove by solo laner and enemy jg. You almost had me with this bait. You prolly play lillia or shyv and afk farm, which is okay, even if you never climb
OP this is a great post. Thanks. I wish there was some sort of regular tutorials like this on the lol client for low elo players to read (most probably wouldn't read it, but some would). 

I think the problem is this changes a lot with patches and the latency to catch up with new meta is lower as you go lower elo. 

I am a jungle OTP since season 3 been Diamond for 3 seasons. However my MMR has varied from Platinum to high diamond and there's a lot I notice: in lower elo laners takes jungle camps a lot (Plat) whereas in Diamond in just doesn't happen. 

Also OP there's something super important you could add to your post in an edit: kills experience scale with level. At early level clearing camps gives much more than kills... Whereas later in the game kills become more rewarding. As a jungler it is optimal to clear as fast as you can until ~ level 10, only wasting time with ganks if it is really worth it (getting a kill + turret plates + deny enemy cs + good wave state or shutdown etc or in your path). Otherwise you probably lose more by ganking than if you continued farming your camps optimally. Above level 10 it is okay to group with your team to get kills and siege turrets etc. 

That's the current state of the game. In other patch kills may be more rewarding early and camps less, encouraging early ganks, but that's not the case at the moment. 

Low elo players just don't commit in game knowledge and meta to care about this, all they want is kill (ASAP) and think jungler should perma camp them. In low elo jungle is a horrible experience you get spam pinged by all laners and flamed constantly. In higher elo laners will check if their jungle is csing well and controlling objective and punishing enemy jungler if they are camped etc. 

Anyway great post OP it's nice to actually see the numbers and the logic. I think you could edit the post with numbers about kill gold and experience with levels, and explain things like when an early kill in worth it (tempo to control an objective such as drake or voidlings or getting turret plates / denying cs).
When your dead laner starts pinging ‘enemy missing’ on you because they died 3 times trying to fight while behind.
I’m that udyr and often I feel bad for the enemy jungle when I’m double CS, he has no packs and his team is flaming yet won’t come to help contest a pack.
Laners are retarded
Yep everybody always says “omg it’s so free just come”. If only they knew.
Post this in summonerschool god PLEASE it's so good.
if only laners could read
I have been playing jungle a lot recently and these things are so true, I get spam pinged for not sprinting from wolves to my bot turret when they have both just died and like 90% guarantee they will get away. They cant seem to comprehend the balancing act in the jungle. And to make matters worse So many times they dont even notice the jungle when their own enemy laner is rotating to help their jungle out. the amount of times I lose the match within 4 minutes because the mid and top both came to help their jungler get the skuttle, and my laners are afk farming waves. dont even get me started with the lack of vision I get even if my lanes have prio
Is it bad that my only expectation for my jungler is that they do their best to secure the objectives? Fuck my lane, get us some more dragons. Don't worry about ganking my lane unless you think my opponents are going to put your ability to secure those objectives at risk. If I see you going for an objective, I'm rotating to that assuming I'm not already near death.

I know that junglers are under a lot more pressure than I am in lame. I can't jungle for shit, so my expectations of my jungler are simple. Go do jungle things I don't understand, keep the enemy team from getting free objectives, and ping if you are on your way so I can save my good stuff and bait some poor sucker into a death trap.

If I'm losing lane, that's not my jungler's fault unless they tried ganking in a bad situation and give my opponent double buffs.
Only time I get a bit heated is when I’m heavy weak sided dove on repeat and yet enemy jungled is still outperforming on the other side of the map.
[deleted]
The answer is very simple: Laners know MUCH less about the game than junglers. Junglers have to keep track of the entire game state, every lanes’ waves, etc. it is a far more complex task that requires a higher knowledge of game mechanics and macro. 

Unfortunately, laners are ego maniacs who will never understand the macro game.
this was a concept that was so frustrating when I was climbing out of silver. 

Like I would know the wavestate for say top is gonna be in a place where its a good gank after I finish my topside clear(eg the enemy is slowpushing). I ping that I'm otw while starting that clear. And every time, toplaners would decide to just all in and either badly lose a trade or outright die, and then spam ping me when I'm still doing wolves. Like if they just looked at their minimap and saw me clearing they would know I'm a good 40s away, but because they think I can just teleport there they get aggro for no reason. A lot of laners need to play some amount of jungle tbh.
I mean this can all be true. But sometimes your jungler is just a selfish Ahole. I saved my jungler earlyfrom dying at scuttle and you better believe I didn't see him a single time come top. This is the real disconnect in the discourse though. Some people are over relying on junglers. Other people are sand bagging their lane to help a jungler That turns around and does nothing for them and both situations blow.
Yeah except in my elo, jungles don't gank because they're actually just r*tarded
If you miss a couple of waves good luck getting near the minions again.
Ok, now do one about why my stupid junglers never watch grub timers.
This is pure copium, league is a strategy game and as such you will always have to make a choice depending on the situation and trade something for something else. It is also a 5 men's game where the only way to get to the Nexus is through lanes, the jungler can't do anything alone even if he afk farmed all his jungle and got the maximum amount of Gold and experience. 

If I am doing my gromp and see my ally getting dove, i'll just leave the camp and go help. 
If the enemy top is perma pushing, that needs to be punished. It is my duty as a jungler to do that, and my only job is to come out with a route that gives me the most amount of gold and exp that will bring me to ganking top. Of course I will not be able to gank every lane every 3 minutes, and yes some laners expect that because they are not aware of what happens outside their lane, but thats just the league experience.
"Why does my laner not rotate when I tell him to"
Well I just want my jungler to gank... Like at all, not afk farming jungle, is that too much to ask for?
Don't get me started that they prefer to die for crab or void grubs at worst, and then blame you for not coming to help them while I have no lane prio at all, and 2 waves to take under my turret cause I had to play safe :)
Chill bro
Laners expect a jungler to have Grandmaster’s map awareness while not even glancing at the wards 20 feet away from their lane is fucking comical. 

To even successfully gank a lane I need to check wavestates, hp ratios, track jg to reduce possibility of countergank, kite camps in direction of gank to get there 8-10 seconds sooner, and pray I have a laner that doesn’t all in before I finish at least half my camps.
Laners see jungle as a PvE game with no opponent. No responsibility besides ganking and last hitting objectives. I've absolutely limit tested 30 minutes straight of farming and doing nothing at all to see where it gets me, and the answer is an L because kills/turrets/minions quickly outscale the reliable gold as the game goes on. So to optimize you want to be killing all of your camps, then using the brief window before they respawn to make a play that gets your more gold or an objective, or donate your time to fixing someone's mistake. The only exceptions to this rule are when you're between one camp or another, if someone is local to you and you can get nearly guaranteed gold/exp killing someone. Ex: Enemy mid is 40% health beside your turret, your laner has CC and all of your cooldowns are up to go step on him. Plays like that are a big gain and should be attractive for a jungler. If I pocket 300-400g and go right back to my camps, I'm now ahead, can clear slightly faster on my next back, and thus have a bigger window to do something. Maybe I can kill the laner at 60% health next time, stacking the advantages on jungle like this makes the game easier for everyone.

The other case where you could consider interrupting your camp sequencing, is when there is a disgustingly large bounty at stake. Like if bot has been feeding hard, and you've sequenced all the way to level 6, but say you've killed krugs and are now on raptors, the enemy Ashe has a 1k shutdown and is pushing up to the allied turret while your laners are screaming. If you can assess the situation and know you have the damage/CC in combination with your allies to shut that down and run away with the gold, that's like 3 full clears. Tremendously worth and will speed up the following clears etc etc. But you have to be able to pull it off, and you have to get the kill.  I guess even half the bounty if you're sharing with one person isn't bad either. But split between 3 people is just a regular kill and not as big of a payoff since you lose time on your sequence. 

  
TLDR only gank when it'll make you more money than your clear will, and when the gank won't fail.
If you lose your lane because of an ego 1v1, you must do your part in flaming the jungle for not teleporting across the map and securing every kill for you.
The average laner has never jungled and it fucking shows.

Know how I know?

Jungle is currently really unpopular. So you don't get a lot of people trying it. Instead you end up with the dedicated mains playing it. Which is fine, honestly.... But it shows, because I'm not dumpstering randoms anymore that can't figure out their camp timers. Everyone I'm against is another jungle main.
Imo, the issue with that argument is that low elo laners also have... Low elo junglers. 

And, they do not make good decisions sometimes, to the point where the quote "Why do you come only when I'm gone or dead" is literally true, throughout an entire game. 

Regardless of that though, there's just too many issues that arise from people not even attempting the Jungle role. Personally, I kinda wish the system was changed so that your secondary role is **always jungle** as a laner, as then you'd actually grow to learn how the JG works.

The JG knowledge is so disproportionately lower the lower you go in comparison to the higher you go in ranks.
What if your enemy laner just pushes the whole time with no sums but you're playing a champ that can't 1v1 the guy. And it's a Squishy. And your jungler doesn't come because he's allergic to getting fed because he reads these posts.

Not saying the OP is wrong, I'm saying your little narrative is jungler fantasy
Yeah it’s really useful numbers to illustrate the point. I feel we just need an additional paragraph at the bottom from a competent laner outlining the numbers around how 1vs1 an opponent who has tp (or even without tp in some cases) while your lane is in the wrong state can actually net the other player more gold from cs than you gain from the kill. Then just post all over summoner school and hope people see…
Sometimes if you’ve chunked down your opponent you don’t need to all in or rage at your jungler for a gank you can just use the threat of an all in to take a cs lead. But some people just solely see the game through kills.
Note: I’d love to say I was a jungler but I haven’t been for about 8 seasons and with the learning required I don’t think I have the time these days to learn it all again. It’s a shame as I did love nocturne
fr, op out here spitting facts, don’t forget we also have to track all wave states, enemy jgl, where they were last seen how long ago, where there gonna be nowX what camps there on, where they are oathing, if i can do drag without help, or if my laners rotate can we. 3v3/4v4
I love how you're the first comment now, so you rost yourself. The fact that you don't add anything of value at all makes it even funnier.
Me doing wolves: On my way

My toplaner: *goes all in*
Shaco has one of the fastest level 3’s in the game. I tell top lane I am going to be ganking level 3. They decide to all in level 1 or just as they turn level 2 and then die. Like if you don’t have the self control to not die by 2:12 when your Shaco has told you they are coming too I’m abandoning your lane hard stop and pre muting the baby rage from them that I know will be coming. You wasted my time as well for essentially a guaranteed first blood. You want to play 1 v 1 with main character syndrome, then you can. I just won’t be listening to a single word of it.
I have learned over time. 

I was naive once, getting mad that my Nasus or Darius/whatever didn't want to follow up a gank when he has a wave and a half crashing into his turret. Like fuck, I'm not going to cripple you for not wanting to let more than half a kill and a bunch of xp die so you can get an assist, unless it means you're making up the difference via plates/extra waves while your opponent's dead. Obviously that's not happening if wave is about to crash. 

On the other side, if wave is in front of turret and not crashing, I expect you to follow up for the 3 minions you're going to lose, because you're getting those back in the time your opponent is dead. It's also why when shoving into turret after a gank, if I got the kill I'll try not to last hit and set them up, but if they got the kill, fuck em I'm getting my payment for a job well done.
That is correct. Farm to your heart's content past 20.
Yes
This guy is getting the correct message
"since there is always a side you are supposed to be on"

Its like that for most players but I think a lot of those complaints came from pro play where the situation is completly different again. You see a lot of Maokais or Rells just never going top site after their first jungle clear dropping camps to their laners and hovering bot 24/7.
>Another thing that I often see pinged is objectives the enemy currently is likely doing while there is absolutely no prio or vision for us

To be honest, I do this a lot of time when I think the jungler is currently doing the objective, not because I want you to go contest it, but more in term sharing knowledge the same way I'll ping where the jungle start or if I know where is (ie : Ashe's E). It is like pinging missing and/or danger when the laner rotate. If it can save somebody from dying in 1 of 10 games, it can potentially snowball from there.
Botlane ignoring the most free dragon imaginable to get a plate and a half and complain when we loose the drake or die is my least favorite type of horror genre
had a darius, ganked his lane and gave him a kill and he said "i will carry from now on" (he was 1/0 i was 3/2) and he fucking carried my ass by 10/0 at the end of the game
just know basic wave management (ie. just last hit so wave will cıme towards you) and simple lane matchups (ie. gwen beats tanks, ranged beats bruiser etc.) its pretty much enough
thats why at level 3 you either full clear or invade, even if you get a kill half of your camps will be gone meanwhile the enemy jungle will be level 5 meanwhile you are 3
Yeah I considered talking about kill exp, and how if you want to gank for levels, solo kills on toplane are your best bet, since higher level champs give an EXP bonus, while champs lower than you give less. I just felt the post was getting long and I wasnt expecting people to have patience to read it.

There's also points about jungle monster levels, where camps level up based on the average level of all champs in the game, but only when they respawn. Since its not something people have much control over I didn't bother with it, its most noticeable early when say someone killed their krugs and you're there when they respawn to reap the benefits of the higher level camp.

I've always considered trying to make like YT content or something that's just no bullshit focus on stuff like this, and maybe updating it patch by patch. Since most 'educational' videos are just to sell coaching and give vague criticisms on how youre bad and need to work on FUNDAMENTALS. It drives me crazy and I hate it. 

I just suck at editing and would probably run out of useful things to say before I start repeating myself unless its just updating previous guides for each patch. Also the fact I'm not in master yet which people might see as a prerequisite to hear anything useful withour dismissing it
That means you're just playing to your strengths and doing what you should be doing. No need to feel bad. Jungle is like a psych ward for your team, some days youre the patient, most days youre the handler. If you truly feel bad for someone and theyre willing to listen, just level with them on what you punished them for and their team got wrong about them. Then if they want the advice, give them a short note about how they can avoid it in the future
Lol okay, though I might need to reword some stuff since they get more easily triggered
Losing the game due to a missed scuttle is a little dramatic, there's 2 for a reason, so to get more scuttles just immediately run to the opposite one enemy jg is pathing toward as soon as your clear is done. You don't even have to check the river if you know he'll be there and you can't smite and get out. 

There's rare moments where the enemy mid/sidelane decides to earn some brownie points and roam to deny the opposite scuttle too, but unless its the support theyre usually losing a little bit for their hubris. Not worth dying for, just nice to have when you can get it. 

With no vision suicide runs on objectives being pinged, I've just started ignoring them if I know its going to be walking into a trap outnumbered with little chance of success. If enemy jungle is on drag, he's not mid, top, or in his top jungle. So we can either gank/push top/mid or take topside camps if theyre up, or get deep vision for a future play. 

When Baron spawns im usually the one doing/requesting it to be warded at all times because I steal them frequently and extra paranoid that they're doing it.
I mean low expectations are good for their mental, but bad if you want them to carry. If my jungler suicides for every dragon and goes 5/10 and is severely hindered for gold/levels because of his early sacrifices, but still grabbed 4 drakes, that's great, but I'm not going to expect him to be tanky in a fight or deal damage regardless of champion. Best I can hope for in that case would be something like a Malphite R that's useful regardless landed on 5 people. 

That said, if you're laning, playing for yourself and to carry from your own position should be your goal anyway. Jungler can just be part of your scheme. In the event you've lost lane or played poorly, that's when I would switch into a utility role and try to make opportunities for someone else like you've been doing.
Sometimes that's just going to happen with bad games or matchup differences. But if a jungle is playing well they should still be gaining an advantage somewhere eventually, or waiting to take a big swing to change the game in my case.

On Eve most sensible people understand that she spikes at level 6 once her stealth and Ulti unlocks, and should ideally try and make a gank happen every time R CD comes up. But there are situations where that can become impossible due to a lot of early feeding or bad lane states, like having bot or top repeatedly pushed out or dead each time she would arrive. 

I had a comp the other day that involved a Zac, Garen, Zeri, I think Yuumi? And some fairly careful long range midlaner. All of my ganks options were terrible, and the enemy zac got himself and others ahead early, so it was a lot of farming and hoping someone would fuck up in a skirmish and overcommit so i could claim their shutdown. From a laner's perspective they're just going to assume I'm too dumb or selfish to gank while trying not to make a bad situation worse.

There was another where a Master Yi snowballed off our top Irelia who ran it down 7 times in the first 10 minutes making sure he got all of them. By 15 minutes he extended that lead to 13 kills, while im chasing him around trying to get a charm off as he Q's someone only to have his target die before its even finished and hes already running out of range. Then im left to look dumb for the next 12 seconds waiting on the cooldown, because bursting him when he can meditate will get me killed as well. 

Its tough to make the game changing plays when behind alone while youre stuck playing catch-up. Meanwhile things just get worse and worse for the laners as it happens.
The fuck you on Reddit for if you don’t read. Post is nicely cut into paragraphs and your 5 year old mind chose this bullshit.

If your bitch ass can’t read keep scrolling. Cause this is the content laners need to fucking see. 

Sissy bitch boy.
Yeah. There's a lot of calculus that goes into jungling and it's definitely very complicated but at the same time, it's very easy to suddenly find yourself constantly zoned off the wave because your laner hit a spike before you did and they're using that inch to take a mile.

Getting ganked in top lane can mean you spend the entire laning phase trying to hang around in XP range.
That's true, and while when you're behind and taking a gold hit because you can't farm, you can still stand as close as you're able to soak XP if you're smart, don't shove the wave. Because as much as missing gold and not getting your first item the same time as your role opponent sucks, EXP is way more important. People down 3-4 levels is how YT content creators get their highlights reels of "HUGE ONESHOTS, BROKEN, BIG YELLOW TEXT, WHAT IS RIOT THINKING?!"

The base stats from levels and skill ranks are effectively items in themselves. So if you get 125g from a wave but die and miss 2 more, you're out way more.

Using Lux as an example here, Lucent Singularity gains 50 damage per rank with an 80% AP ratio. An Amp Tome gives 20AP or 16 damage to that ability. Given that's her main poke/clear tool, and 400g is getting you 1/3 of the damage you would have gotten for a level, it reasons to say you should care a lot about levels. 

Also since I'm sure someone will point it out if I don't, obviously looking at one ability in a vacuum when there is a whole kit of ratios to think about is silly. Lux's full kit burst is 285%, more if you add extra passive procs, but that's 57 damage for the 400g for the whole kit's worth of abilities you won't even be using on CD, when standing in range and being alive will get you 50 for free.
Grubs arent that important. As long as you get 2 everything is fine.
Fine. Next time you are laning bot top or mid. 
When jungler is near drake or Void, abandon you lane of minions, ignore your turret getting bombed, and go help your jungler.
Its ateam effort right? Do it first and show us junglers how easy it is to leave your side of objective without crying of what you lose doing so.

Seriously, doesnt even play jungle and wants to talk shit.
This is the best take and yet it has negative karma.

Just reddit things.
Dying for voidgrubs is 1000% worth it, same for a dragon, harald and baron. One kill is worth way less than what they bring in stats for the entire team. Only exception is if you're at min 30 and the enemies can end due to that one death.
Oh so you get to play safe and afk farm under your turret because - checks notes “I’m playing safe/I don’t have prio”  but junglers don’t?
I fucking hate when people go ham and die seconds before my arrival then ?????? ping as I walk away from the lost opportunity
Nah this shit still happens in gm too. It’s super frustrating when I’m on the opposite side of the map and people want me to get them on THEIR schedule
Everything I see as a jungler is that Riot needs to give bonus XP to kills and assists to those with jungle items scaling down until 20 minutes. Make ganking worth it.
Ill play river Shen next time, so i can ult when he ego 1v1s
i literally just had this happen, came to jgmains to soothe my rage.

mid constant ping spam to the timeout point any time i wasn't actively ganking his lane, then he dies 1v1, proceeds to farm my jg and continue to ping spam me and more or less run it down
[deleted]
To be fair, the problem is most junglers never laned either. Old ranked system in early seasons had a lot of flow the "pick order" and "you last pick, you supp" had a way of forcing you to be at least "okay" on every role and learn a bit of the fundamentals of all of them, while focusing on your main.

  
Nowaday, most people only master their own lane, which lacks depth imo.
We aren’t talking about shitty junglers. But point blank period a solo lanes job requires much less macro than the jungler. Most of the baby rages from laners are from being in a bad matchup and feeling like it’s the junglers job to enable their aggressive playstyle. 

Like the laners that go 5-0, if they are in a scenario where they are 1-4 they don’t turtle. They continue to play as if they are 5-0 and blame the jungler when it doesn’t work. 

I literally became a solo laner because of how stressful jungling is. Let’s say I know our champs powerspikes and that of the enemy team. Our top lane jumps into a 1v3 that he thinks we win if I show up. I know that fight isn’t Winnable. Top dies. So next time I show up top side to make a 80% play he ignores me or afk farms to troll.

If jungle has to put up with shit like that I’d rather be a fed solo laner than can 1v1 half the roster instead of a 5-0 jungler than can get jungle camped and diffed by an inting 2-8 Renekton who probably still out levels me and can out dps my fed jungler.
Don't get me wrong, if your jungler is retarded and decides to force you into a gank when your own lanestate is bad and you can't followup, even if hes a bigbrain on farming he's still bad. Everyone just uses jungle as a get out of jail free card for mistakes, often that mistake is fighting/pushing without vision on enemy jungler or lack of respect/knowledge of the lane you're fighting, or sometimes outright getting outplayed because the other guy just did it better. When a lane gets bad enough, usually 2 kills deep or a huge exp deficit depending on the matchup, the jungler may well be the only way to fix it, and people lash out. BUT IT WAS STILL THEIR MISTAKE that led to this situation. And the lack of understanding of jungle's own issues like getting invaded or forced off camps when the top or midlaner decides to give up CS to go fuck with him. 

My point with all of this is, if you are a laner. And you fuck up, get ganked, get unlucky, get outplayed, whatever. That's completely fine. You can get help, but you need to be capable of receiving help and planning when you're going to receive it, to give the best conditions for the jungler to fix it so that it doesn't come at a cost of bringing him behind too. Should be lifting up each other, not dragging one person down so another can move up. It's a wonder why people are so vindictive toward each other given each side's conditions.
I disagree with jungle knowledge being disproportionately lower as you move down the ranks. I climbed from b3 to e3 last split and I'm p2 now(been playing a lot less cause of school), but the laners knowledge of jungling didn't really ever change in a meaningful way. Like my games went from the 20th percentile to the 91st percentile and the complaints never stopped or changed in a meaningful way. They still cry about ganks, taking cs(in ways that don't screw up the wave state), exaggerate about the pressure they get, tell me stuff is free when it isn't, not understanding that my ability to get an obj is directly proportional to whether they are winning or losing and need to be literally dragged objs and begged to push when necessary. Literally the entire population of the game just thinks you're the worthless PvE guy that should be 2v1ing their lane (except when the minions are there - DoNt LeAcH mY xP). "I've been ganked 5 times and you haven't come one time" - well, you've been pushed or dead for 17 minutes.... 

I've had a laner demonstrate understanding of the jungle literally like 8 times ever.
I strongly agree with this.
Another thing that in my opinion makes jungle difficult is that there is not a clear stat/indicator of how well a jungler is doing. A laner can use cs, tower status, kda, exp level as a way to compare himself to the other players/enemies, but I feel that a jungler can't really do it in the same way. 
This makes it really hard for a jungler to self-assess and understand if he did or did not do a good job (unless reviewing the entire game afterwards).
Nah, you literally just made up an entire scenario. Don’t try to pull me into your imaginary situation to cope. 
Fantasy? Like what you just made up? Lmao.
Let's say you're playing Mundo top into Aatrox, a notoriously bad matchup for Mundo since it's almost impossible to make any damage on him stick due to Aa's innate vamp and passive heal that only gets bigger as Mundo builds health. Aa used his sums and you barely survived and are now under turret spamming help pings while I'm on my raptors pathing upward. 

I could finish my raptors and run straight to your lane, skipping wolves and gromp while my camp timers tick. If the gank succeeds, the 300g I get for the kill is taxed 161g by my camps not getting sequenced. If you get the kill, or there is no kill, or worse, I die, or it creates a situation where the enemy jungle gets my camps instead, then I lose much much more.

The ideal scenario is that you either soak exp and hope Aatrox is still around when I get there, or reset and take some turret damage so you can be there full health ready to make a play during the window my camps are down. A lot of toplaners will reset and go right back to pushing their lane out, so when i arrive it's now on the enemy turret and no gank is possible til it pushes back out, if we aren't already strong enough to dive. This can make a loop of "You never ganked my lane in 10 minutes" from people just sabotaging their own lane over and over.
Downvoted for playing shaco
Well yeah in pro play the laners are required to be competent and the same team will play together for the entire season. It's a completely different experience for everyone. Laners also don't sit in their lane the whole game in pro, but people don't like to point that out.
Happens at least every couple of games too it feels
If we get 4 drakes and can't make something happen because of our jungler's sacrifice then the laners are being the weak link here. Laner got us what almost amounts to a full item worth of buffs from objectives. He set us up for victory and it's our turn to do our part.

I hate the term carry, because more often than not, it's a loaded term. Even as the main damage dealer, if I don't have someone peeling for my sorry ass then I'm likely to just get bursted or have to stand so far back from a fight that I'm basically worthless. I'm not carrying shit, I'm just the damage dealer. It's a team game and it's super rare for players to be able to just walk in and solo carry the whole game.
Do you not see the contradiction in that statement?

You're saying you need at least 2 for things to be fine, which means having/not having 5 or 6 grubs is important. Great if you have them, bad if you don't.

Which begs the question, why aren't junglers watching grub timers?
I don't understand why some of you act so childish as "its always your fault". 
First, i play jungle so chill man.
Second, I literally leave my lane to help anyone in need 100% of the times IF it is worth it (and often times it is). But I need to put thought into it, like for example it I have tp i can easily go back in lane and so it is a simple "letsgo" decision, otherwise I have to assess if It makes sense to lose 1-2 waves. Forcing a laner to leave just to prove a point like you said makes no sense and has no logic or strategic reasons. Same applies for a jungler ganking a lane, as ganking is a lot of effort. 
Of course everyone wants the challenger teammates but the reality is different, you will find bad laners dying in 1vs1 for no reason and bad junglers having no impact on the game. 
Still, that should not change the way you play the game, as the best strategy is still to play as a team, find the win condition and execute. 

The thing you don't understand is that as a jungler you have more choices than a laner, and the impact of every decision is heavier than any of your teammates. You can choose to do a Drake or not, the laner cannot decide to lane or not with his counter. It Is fine if you ignore a lane as long as your plan makes sense, the problem is that usually people with your mentality just end up doing selfless decisions that brings nothing to the game.
Thanks for the support, I feel like reddit is becoming more of a therapeutic tool for handling frustration after losing a lot of games ahah
For one voidgrub or one early dragon it's not worth it. 
For Herald, maybe depends on the game state.
For Baron, yes it's worth always, same with elder dragon. 
Also in most cases my jungler start objective, dies, and give up the objective. Worth?
I think you missunderstood me, they can go for the safe fullclear, but if they farm all game, and then they have 3/4k dmg in over 20 minutes game then I think there's something wrong. They don't even need to gank my lane, I just want them to gank any lane. 
Also yeah I don't have prio in some matchups, cause simply my champion isn't winning versus enemy champion, and my jungler is always like "Hey, this objective respawned I'm coming to take it" you ping them to back off, you type them, you can't help them, they still go there, die and ping you with the question marks and blame you for not coming. 
2 waves are a lot of gold, and xp, if I will come to a fight I will be later than an enemy laner either way and if we will all die in a fight I'm gigabehind. 
Most Junglers don't understand that, they always think only what they want to do matters, and others must obey :)
If the above change happened, you would see Lee sin every game flash suiciding for kills. Though a version that involved a stacking XP modifier for farming your camps/not ganking up to a small cap might help.
Everyone who's not autistic understands sarcasm without the /s in extremely obvious cases like this
Ah I remember those days.

"Are you last pick? Are you getting stuck with support?"

"are you last pick? Are you getting stuck with mid? No you're not, because everyone and that goddamn diamond smurf wants mid"
I'm a primary jungle player, my laning sucks balls. But when I know I have to lane and try hard, I play things like Lissandra or Urgot, or Malzahar, knowing that I can be idle in lane until the jungler arrives, then go hard as fuck and give them an engage when they arrive. Good setup is the best thing in the world for a jungler, and people who can hold their shit together then go ham when I'm ready. If the ganks never come, and other lanes aren't getting ganks between sequencing, that's the jungler's misplays. If I've communicated i'll blow my CDs for him at the ideal moment and play like a bitch til he gets there, he should be making use of that.
I don't understand the difference between being a jungler with a 2-8 renekton inting toplaner or being a top with a 2-8 kayn inting jungle. Actually, i think i would rather have the inting top so at least me and my team could get objectives. 
You just prefer being a solo laner based on your playstyle and there Is nothing wrong with that.
For junglers it comes down to "What's my CS, what level am I?"

For laners its "wHy Do wE hAVe No DrAgOnS?!"
No I am not saying that. 

Grubs are only important if the enemy has champs that can use them. If they have a tank top, mage mid and low range adc you can drop all 6. If they have a splitpush monster top and a long range marksmen then you need at least 2
For three voidgrubs it's worth. Also a kill gives the enemy 300g and you a downtime of maybe ten seconds early game. A dragon gives stats worth between 300-1000g without taking items into account (solely looking at the base stats increase) and usually somewhere between 2k and 5k gold if items and runes are taken into account. That is besides the factor that you are able to get soul 5 minutes earlier/the enemies will take 5 minutes longer to be able to get soul which is huge for both stretching out the game if you lost early, or ending quick if you won early.
Why do you want them to gank any lane?
Why is that so ingrained in your brain?

A jungler should gank when it’s beneficial to do so.
Sometimes, you just have more benefit by farming than by ganking a lane.

If the risk/reward for that gank is really bad and farming is the better choice, you farm. 

This game and especially soloqueue is about consistency. If none of my lanes are a win condition that means I need to make myself a win condition, or stomp on the enemies win condition if possible.

If that means I hard farm and focus on objectives then so be it. 

Regarding your comment about junglers expecting you to be there on objectives: you have timers. You know when objectives are coming up and it’s your job to make sure you get your wavestate in such a state that you can leave your lane to get said objective. Objectives will give team-wide gold exp and stats which will by far outweigh the bit of gold and exp you may miss if you prepared your wavestate right. 

If you’re so behind or unable to create a beneficial wave state for your lane that’s a skill issue. 

I think it’s funny you apply all the excuses of not wanting to fall behind but you expect junglers to fall behind by ganking anywhere just for the sake of ganking. I know you’re going to argue that’s not the case but that’s essentially what you’re saying with “I just want them to gank any lane”.
Hey, i have autism and got it. Dude's just a little stupid i think
Not everyone does tho and it is sad af
An 0-1 jungler will get 10x the grief then a 1-8 renekton...
2-8 renekton means the enemy top has AT LEAST 8 kills and is 3 levels up on the entire game and will likely solo carry it. 2-8 kayn could mean a bunch of different and not really be that bad things. Is he trading his life for kills/objs? Is he dying because solos are behind? The reason he is dying will say a lot about the gamestate. Top lane dying means you don't need to worry about the gamestate cause it's *over*
You misread my post and it’s not my responsibility to explain that to you beyond this.
Do you really think that for jungle a good indicator is CS and level?
Because to me it is such a complex role that those two alone are hardly the most impacting factors. 
Like for example, the winrate after first drake jumps to 63%. 
What I mean is, imagine you want to predict the outcome of a game just by knowing 2 numbers. Sure cs and level would have some above chances correlation with winning but unironically I think #dragons will be stronger. To be fair this is just speculation, I havent done any test. 
In my opinion this doesn't work in jungle as the impact is not as easily measurable. For example, a jungler assisting a lane to prevent a turret being destroyed before another teammate could get first tower would increase the winrate to 70% (compared to the 63% for First Drake).
>If they have a splitpush monster top

Fun fact, I'm a Yorick main.

So again, why are my junglers ignoring grubs?
For Three Voidgrubs it's okeyish, not really worth. Voidgrubs are also useless when your team cannot push at all, and need to stay and just defend, and waveclear.
For Early dragon it's still not worth. Maybe Okay at best, if you go out there and steal it.
Also let's be real it's 300g for a kill, you will be out the map long enough for enemies to do something else extra, so it's more than 300g. 
Soul is nice, but single dragons after nerfs aren't really that useful, definietly not worth "300g-1000g". 
Most games end before any team gets a soul anyway (Unless one team totally stomps and claim soul in 20 some minutes with 4 drakes, and enemies 0 drake)
There will always be at least one or two occasion they can gank tho
While watching proplay, I see junglers never afk-farm whole game. They are somehow always finding occasions to gank. They aren't falling behind when they already cleared all what is there to clear. They have time to gank, if they don't see the lane they can gank, then maybe they can invade with their laners, and put enemy jungler behind. There will always be occasion for that. Just do something on the map, anything.
Yeah I have timer, I know that there will be an objective in 5 minutes of the game. If I have a matchup to make the wavestate and come to help my jungler, I will do it, but If I have a matchup that literally doesn't allow me to do that, I won't go for it. I will just play it safe, and I expect my jungler to understand that I can't come. Skill issue would be if I were dead in that timer, but I'm alive, just farming under tower cause my matchup doesn't allow me to play aggresive, so I'm getting what I can, to came out even from the lane, and then be useful later on.
1 was 1/3 with every objective and getting full toxic shit talked by a mid
Yeah exactly ahaha
Hands down the inting toplane if he is not afk. Between two afks, I would prefer and afk jungler.
This is also copium. 

First a 2-8 renekton could have died half of the times due to the enemy jungler ganks, mid roams or other less likely scenarios. 
So it is a fact that you are wrong by saying that the enemy top has at least 8 kills and 3 levels above your top. 

Second, you are basically saying that only the jungler can trade his life for objectives or kills. And you are a jungler I guess. By the way, usually is the other way around, it is better to let the top trade his life since the jungler is the one who can smite. So a 2-8 kayn is not really in a good position, i would say far worse than a 2-8 renekton. The renek can still tank, the kayn will have no dmgs and no tankiness. 

Third, losing toplane does not mean losing the game and if you think so well then you lack even the basics mechanics of league.
You are right, sorry. To be honest though I still can't make sense of what you Say.
If you are a 5-0 jungle and a 2-8 renek can diff you in your own jungle then there is something wrong with you. If he is 2-8 it means he loses against your top and so it should also lose against your AND your top in your jungle (i am assuming the toplaner comes to you).
Man, you must be bronze, huh?  Literally everything you've said here is incorrect.
I do, though I would add current item completion to my statement. Since CS count isn't really going to account for total gold gained from ganks/shutdowns. The best metric is Gold per minute when the game is over, but you can't see that without addons. I look at my own CS out of habit so I can compare it to the best players on my team and theirs to judge how well my clears have been going overall. Like if I'm at 100CS at 10 minutes, I'm doing exceptionally well in farming, and likely caught some waves/invaded to get there. 

Another thing I look at every game, is completion time for my first item. Back when Mythics were in the game, Protobelt was 3200g and a consistent rush item on Eve. After hundreds of clears I noticed the absolute latest I ever had it completed was 13 minutes, usually while doing really suboptimal or having a bad game. Anything later than only happened with copious mistakes and fuckups where I was playing really badly. So that became the baseline, while having a really lucky/snowbally game had me done mythic around 9 minutes. So anything before 13 minutes was an advantage, and the earlier that was, the bigger the advantage. With mythics gone and first item prices being adjusted you have to do a little more guesswork or keep track of how long 3200g took, but with Lichbane (3100g) being my new first item I'd probably say by 12:30 is probably a good baseline. 

About the dragon thing, winrate does go up considerably with first drag. But if I had to guess on the reasoning behind it, it's that it meant the winning team was either already winning, and just aced and took the drag, and that people get demoralized and FF more often when they see the enemy team get soul. There's also the fact that a full 4 drag sweep  by 24 minutes means Elder is next. If they were in a position to sweep by 24 minutes then they were already winning, same as how Mejai's Soulstealer shows a high winrate since the users are also winning if they're buying it. 

The actual biggest measure of winning more often in my opinion is Turrets>Level>Gold

A team with 6 turrets killed naturally has a lot of gold and wide open lanes they can farm, while opponents have way less safety and have to hang back by their inhibitors or risk being caught out. They also have a much farther walk when having to go defend a splitpush if a fight breaks out in the center. 

There's also a lesser known buff that has a big impact on winning games called 'Minion Pushing'. Where the more total turrets a team has killed, and the higher the team's average level, the bigger the buff gets, adding up to 60% more damage to minions and 10 Flat damage reduction, ensuring they always beat the enemy minions overall. The cap is reached with all turrets dead up to the Nexus, and a 3 level average advantage for your team. This stacks with the damage buff to siege minions when you have Baron.

But yeah, the less turrets they have and levels you have, the harder your team is to kill and the easier it is to farm or take objectives, which just snowballs out of control. It's still possible to lose games by being arrogant and not respecting your enemy, dying 1v5 over and over, feeding bounties etc. But a smart team should win with a good advantage just by deathballing with better base+item stats.
Dont know. Could be a multitude of things. Maybe they want to prioritize drake stacking as a win con over splitpush and if the enemy has no splitpush threat that means you can drop all 6.

Maybe you are low elo and your junglers are running around not knowing what to do. Cant say witho0ut looking at games
Voidgrubs completly depend on the teamcomp. If they have no splitpushers and no siege marksmen you can drop all 6. If they have Cait/Lux plus Fiora or something you better dive into that pit to at least steal 2 grubs because otherwise your turrets are paper
I really think it’s a bit hypocritical for you to say it’s okay for you to miss objectives and such under the excuse of “I’m playing safe” and “so I can be useful later” but when junglers make the same decision you’re mad about it.

This is exactly why this thread exists.

There absolutely are games where it’s just not a good decision for a jungler to gank and the better decision is to just start recalling and starting another clear.

The “just do anything” on the map is what they are doing when they are farming. They’re increasing their gold and experience so they can be useful later on.

You should really start applying your lane logic to the jungle. If you can’t roam because you  have  two waves up you would miss if you left, the same goes for junglers that won’t gank unless it’s safe and beneficial to do so.

In fact if you’re in a position where you absolutely cannot do anything but stick under your turret, that side of the map is now unsafe for me because their jungle can come into my jungle, call for their top and just 2v1 me. 

Are you sure you want to open the pro play can?
Because that will only show more how much of a lane skill issue all of the above is and not a jungle issue.

Pro player junglers can make the plays they make **because** the laners are setting the waves up so they can get a gank. You will never see a pro player top player with a crashing double wave while their TP is down.  Never. And if a skirmish breaks out they shove and TP in. Where you will probably just stay afk farming the lane because “I don’t have prio”.

You do not want to open this can. 

It’s constantly “I expect my jungler that..” but when are you going to take the time to understand the junglers role and why they make the decisions they make? Because you absolutely do not understand their reasoning. Yet you expect them to understand yours.
Ideally a top laner would trade his life for obj, but he didn't show up to it. A *very* large percentage of my losses are due to feeding top lane. Even if the enemy top has 8 assists, he'll be up on the entire game. That's literally how the game works

. I can walk in and feed the enemy jg 8 times and he'll still be a lvl under my solo laners and have a much smaller impact on the game then fed top. 

Source: I'm an emerald jungler that dies 10 times a game with over 50% wr.
It is 90% likely that 2/8 Renekton is 2/8/0 

It is also 90% likely that your 2/8 Jungler is not 2/8/0. 2/8/4 Kayn that is camping bot lane has 9-13 Minute Passive completion time depending on when Kayn ganked. 2/8/4 Kayn now has fed duo lane and has an easier time guaranteeing dragons. I take 2/8 Jungler every single fucking time no questions asked. The same reason you think toplane is the least influential role in the game is the same reason why it is so detrimental to be a dead top laner.
When jungling, its pretty normal to lose a 1v1 against a toplaner who is losing his lane, especially a renekton
I strongly suggest going to therapy if you feel like harrassing me just because I have you an advice you don't agree with. 

I don't want to break it to you but sitting at 51% wr is basically being stuck. And i am not sure one would ever brag about having kda of 2 or below. 

At the end of the day, this is a game and you should not stress too much about It. Its better to be bronze and have fun than being master and suffering.
I think just holding tab and looking at your own stats is pretty much always a flawed assesment.  
  
I can go 0/1/1 on sej tower diving for my 250 stack draven or I can be 2/0/0 as I secure both the kills in front of him and he dies in the exchange resetting the stacks. Yes I´ll feel better when I hold tab with more items and exp and I can flame my botlane for getting gapped, but I did just giga grief the game.
I agree with the last part, but I am not convinced of what you say. 
The fact is that as you say the rule "Turret > Level > Gold" works only considering the whole team. You are so focused on only YOUR gold and YOUR experience but for a jungler I think that should be not the primary goal. Junglers can have a decisive impact on first tower, so increasing team towers and gold, and a suboptimal clear giving first tower is better overall than an optimal clear giving first tower to the enemy. 
Don't get my wrong, it is good that you have a baseline on when you get your first item and track the amount of gold you get, but it shouldn't be the end goal to minimize the time for getting the first item or anything similar. 
League is not a speedrun game. Yes some games will be like that, some others will require you to make sacrifices and play differently. 
All roles have to adapt, but I feel junglers the most (and maybe ADC the seconds). 
Otherwise you really lose track of what is really happening in the game, autopilot all the way and then lose winnable game if you just sacrificed a Camp or two.
>Could be a multitude of things.

The question I first posited hasn't changed, but your answers keep changing.
Well with that I must agree, a good splitpusher or siege comp will make a good use of a voidgrubs. Taking at least 2 from them is nice so they don't spawn voidmites and destroy your towers too fast
You don't understand what I'm saying...
I will go to my jungle to help, even when waves are under my tower. It's almost always worth it to go and help my jungler in our own jungle, and I will be faster than enemy laner (unless he proxy me, I have a shorter path) and we win the fight by taking an enemy jng 2v1 before enemy top comes there to help him.
I actually want my jungler to play safe, he can fullclear, recall, comeback, start the second clear. After the second clear tho, he should play around his plan, and ganks should be in that plan. AFK Farming 20 minutes will just lose you a game. 
Jungle is my secondary role, and I understand it well. I farm, I see if I can gank anywhere, I track enemy jng pathing, and I tell my laners where enemy jng should be. I countergank or setup for a play on the other side of the map.
I'm not telling you to run around the map and spam gank, cause it's not worth it, you lose too much gold and xp.
BUT YOU HAVE A WINDOW TO DO SOMETHING, and farming 24/7, dealing 3k dmg a game isn't it. 
If there's a "safe gank" as you call it, go for it, give your laners a lead.
I also never said I have my tp down lol, I will go to the skirmish but in some matchups you really don't have prio. In proplay you won't see those matchups because they are either banned away, or just a really cheese picks that only OTPs play. Because I don't have prio, my jng should play safe, and not come to the river, expecting me to help him before enemies get there.  
I actually think OP is a good jungler, by reading his threat, and seeing what he said in response to some people. You with your takes not so much :) You seem like a powerfarmer.
>Source: I'm an emerald jungler that dies 10 times a game with over 50% wr.

That is not really promising. 

To show how much you are deep in your own conspiracy theory think about this: it is statistically impossible that your toplaner is on average worse than the enemy. So either you are the missing variable (spoiler, probably it is) or the riot illuminati doesn't want you to climb. 
Moreover, if you think toplane has such a big impact on the game then for your own interest you should camp that lane and by doing so winning the game.

Reality is, you are stuck because you are playing suboptimally and the fault is only yours.
No wait i am not following you, if the toplaner is the least influential role it should not be detrimental to be a dead toplaner. Care to explain?
Yeah also correct
Instead of arguing with better players you should try listening to them and learning, other wise you'll always be bad. 

Imagine thinking KDA matters. At all. 

60% WR on my main champ, but focus on w/e you need to focus on. (Also I'm hardly playing cause of nursing school + work - and I'm still better than you). 

(Congrats on stalking my account just to find out I'm twice as good as you. Get help in life and league)
There are more complicated outliers like a Draven waiting to cash in, but its just that. Outliers. In Draven's case if he pings he has 400-500g in stacks I'm perfectly fine to cede the kill to him, because come hell or high water the extra stats come at a low cost to me and will hopefully keep him from dying. But I'm also not going to sacrifice myself over and over with the intention that the team will carry me, as that rarely works out in my favor since I have little or no control over them.   
I could die for Draven 5 times and make him 10/0, and he can go on to int his bounty, die 3 more times then spam FF and tell me the game is over and we're jungle gapped. I don't like relying on other people's mental and stability to get me the win, if it comes at the cost of crippling myself. I'd rather just play consistently for myself and use that influence to make his life easier and thus enable more cash outs longterm.
It's fine to be unconvinced, 

It's true I am focused on my gold and experience. In a perfect world I could donate power to my team's best carries, like Kayle, Katarina, Draven etc, and just let them do their job and carry me like they're supposed to. But while that works well on paper, the reality is that I have no control over them, their gameplay is volatile, and I have to assess each person's gameplay and skill level individually per game. I've had games where I put my botlane into an enormous advantage, like a 12/0 ADC. You'd think with a huge item lead they would go on to play careful, push their advantage and overwhelm their opponent, but instead they overpush, take bad fights, try to 1v5, and by the end of the game that 12/0 is now 12/12. 

I can't count on randoms I just met to preserve their leads or play well consistently. In fact when it comes to giving someone a lead, I actually feel more confident when it's a tank who gets ahead, because the extra stats they buy are all defensive and they have more time to clue in and back off before they die. They won't carry, but they'll last longer than the ADC/Midlaner with an ego thinking 500AP/AD will help them live through a malphite Yasuo R combo.

By focusing on yourself, barring you're playing a champ that either kills quickly, or pushes turrets quickly, you have a much bigger influence on the game. So I can understand if you're viewing this through a lense of say, Rammus, or Ivern who are playing a more supportive role and can't do those things as easily on their own. It's the same reason that when I play support, even though I really enjoy playing Nami or Soraka and watching healthbars go up, I'm better off playing Lux and snowballing myself to take people off the map. It removes an element of randomness.

>Giving first tower

I'd treat this situation like a gank, if it's possible to save the tower for the next minute, and guard it long enough for people to defend it, and its not a long walk away, I'd do it. But towers dropping pre 14 minutes are usually the result of laning mistakes, It's likely I'll get first tower myself before that happens.
Yeah because your question is stupid low elo bullshit.
1. I'm not stuck and im *probably* higher ranked then you. You should learn to read. I'm winning more than I lose despite the deaths.

2. I do camp top unless it's not possible. 

3. Top lane definitely has the most capacity to snowball the game due to xp and lane dynamics. If you don't understand that, maybe it's cause you are bad at the game.

Edit: oh you're an adc main, I understand why you are so ignorant. Good luck begging for the adc buffs. Peace.
I never said that top lane is the least influential role. I in fact agree with what u/AudioTsunami said that toplane is the most impactful. My comment implies that YOU think that given everything you’ve said across 3 threads. I shouldn’t have to explain what my statement at the end means. After reading this, reread my original comment and if it’s still not clicking I’ll gladly explain what I mean.
I feel like the yare the least influential role unless one of them gets fed (which happens pretty often) and then that top tps down and wins the tf due to how tanky they are
Read this https://www.reddit.com/r/Jungle_Mains/s/XlKCYUQnoF
You need to fix your ego, change your attitude and be mentally strong to be good at this game. 
I hope we meet on the rift so i can get free LPs. Bye.
I see you've moved onto to the second stage of grief.

Stay small, little birdie.
Why don't you use logic and reasoning? Your words don't mean anything unless they have a valid point.

You should provide the actual win rate instead of saying it is over 50 which doesn't mean anything. There are other 50 numbers between 50 and 100. 

I feel so much frustration coming from everything you say, basically everything come down to confrontation and stereotypical assumption coming from some elses role. That really makes me think you are stuck, and don't enjoy playing. 

And no, toplane does not have the most capacity to snowball. Look that up. 

Not that it should matter, but yes I was an ADC, not anymore. Pay more attention when reading. I also mained jungle so maybe you should start hating that too.
Lol, hurt your feelings by being that much better than you that you've been thinking about it for 5 days. Seek help and self reflect.
Chica in a creek with Mark
so cute lmao
Hello! Thanks for posting. This is a reminder about the rules. Make sure the post is appropriate and not to delegate or go against Reddit policy or r/Markiplier Rules. If this does break rules, please report it immediately. Posts that encourage raids on other subs or platforms is a bannable offense.

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/Markiplier) if you have any questions or concerns.*
I see her legs are growing in nicely
Chica? That’s Creeka
Edge of Sleep? No, Edge of Creek
Imagine taking a hike and coming across god and his dog
Didn't he break his foot taking her for a walk one day? Lol.
Chica definitely went in the water
ohh seeing her becoming so white in the face is so 🥺
Chica was born March 26, 2015. The average lifespan of a golden retriever is 10-12 years. 

  
I am not emotionally, physically, or spiritually prepared for the possibility that China is nearing her end.
[Chica squeeka](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2QmNLIsQ1l8)
Random question: how old is chica by now?
she looks so happy to be there 😭😭😭
He's up a chica creek without a paddle
i loved seeing this video! I think Amy posted it somewhere right? or am i going crazy
Elf on a shelf? Nah Chic at a Creek
Chica in a creek-a
Creeka
With how busy and hard working he is, it makes me happy he gets to spend time on Chica still
Chica diverted that creek, not me! -Mark probably
CREEK DOG! CREEK DOG! CREEEEEKKKK DOGGGGG
Chica looks so happy! 🥹 Mark is a good papa to the bestest floofy lady
Awwww
Nice nature photo markiplier.
chica looks like she had fun in the water
That's adorable
Ahhhh, the creek…. A lot of good childhood memories.
Beware of the gongoozler in the creek
creeka :))
Chica's friend Mark
Doggy
Chica!!!
Creek creature
All of my comments have been downvoted? Why?
Chicaplier and creekaplier standing in a creek….
Looks like shes still waiting for the last one to come in. I assume Henrys not there because he has no legs currently.
I imagined Chica would have to grow a couple legs and get rid of the arms when they stopped being a chicken and jump scaring people.
😂
[deleted]
Think he said he rolled his ankle stepping off a side walk?
😂😂😂 I can imagine he is in crippling pain in this photo
Gotta love Chica!
At least she's happy with Mark
I don't wanna think about that ):
well boat dog is 8 years old now. and she doesnt look like a puppy in boat dog ngl.
Google says 9
chica turned 9 back in march or so
the squeak-a
Trying too hard to make up for your first comment here...
i mean, there is no need to reply to every comment in the post, and since you noticed on a previous comment, karma isn't important on reddit so dw about it, you seem kinda desperate
because you’re policing a comment section on a post that isn’t even yours and being active to make up for lost karma
Nah, Henry's not there because Mark would make fun of the way he poops.
Edge of sleep? No edge of your last nerve
Edge of sleep? No, edge of short fuse
bro just leave the subreddit for a week or 2 if it bothers you that much😭 you are literally in charge of your own feed.
the fact that i thought you were OP and you’re not even OP… it’s not your post, so why are you policing the comments? this sub is about markiplier, he’s in the show as an actor, fans want the show to be successful.
edge of sleep.
When the main subject of a subreddit makes a show and the subreddit talks about it
Cringe, super cringe. Edge of sleep. Edge of sleep. Sleedge
Bruh, I'm sorry you're down voted, there's no need because you were respectful. A lot of people are tired of it including me, I've just fully accepted it and now making fun of myself
Ouch. I remember that story (from the one and only Distractible) and I do sort of remember that loads of things went wrong and then he sprained his foot! But that was a while ago so take all that was read with a pinch of salt. 👍
I have no idea what you got downvoted for here. Everyone likes Chica, right?
Ah, I forgot about the uphill pooper.
[deleted]
It’s because it was an unnecessary comment. It wasn’t mean and was respectful, but it was unnecessary. Tired of seeing comments about something Mark is LITERALLY promoting? Leave then. You don’t have to look at this subreddit.
[deleted]
They’re getting downvoted for something they said in another comment
yeah it's been everywhere because mark asked us to put it everywhere. it is getting next to NO advertisement and not a single streaming platform bought it. the only reason it is on amazon is because amazon luckily has a self publishing ability. meaning amazon does not have to buy your content off of you for it to be available, you can just upload it yourself. the success of the show is quite literally riding on the support of the fans at the moment. US fans especially, as it is only available in america right now. we are the only ones that can give it the success it deserves for the team to not only have a chance to get noticed by someone willing to buy it and get it streaming to a wider audience, but to also give mark a proper chance in the acting industry since he has been a star in the process. being the main character, already being famous irl, and helping produce the show. the success of TEOS could greatly effect the success of iron lung's release. especially since iron lung is mark's own project. mark for the most part just acted in TEOS, outside of that he did not have much of a hand in the creation process. but iron lung is his baby, his chance to get noticed in the film industry and to prove a point. and the point he wants to prove is erasing the stereotype of higher up people in the film industry thinking youtubers and other "smaller" content creators can't create a "good" serious project like that. that they can't produce a full movie that actually does well. that's what this is all about, mark wanting to prove that point to tear down that stereotype and change the film industry in the process.

so if it annoys you because "TEOS is everywhere now" then maybe take a break from the subreddit or even the fandom in general if you're not down for seeing the process that it takes to get him to the goal he's trying to reach. if you're annoyed, unfollow the sub so you don't see the posts all over your home feed. stop complaining about things you quite literally have control over.
Dude it's literally because of this mentality that people are having a hard time. Stop telling people to leave the subreddit. Seriously. This mentality is the reason people are saying they're tired. We can all get tired of something if we see it too much, but trust me the rest of us appreciate Mark just as much. If the rest of you can't see that we all have different levels of commitment and accept that, then that's all there is to it. I've done my part I know that much
Ok why is this comment downvoted though, they didn’t even say something rude
[deleted]
That's dumb. Keep the down votes for the actual stupid comments.
I was not complaining
>Stop telling people to leave the subreddit.

nobody said they have to leave forever or to leave the fandom forever. but to leave it to just TAKE A BREAK from seeing it spammed all over their home pages if all they're doing is complaining about it. people are literally in control of what they see on their feed. if you follow it, you will see it. so leave it for the next 2 weeks to a month, however long it takes to see what the end result is going to be, what the fate of TEOS will be. once the spamming stops, then come back and enjoy regular content again
True, but I think partially the reason they kept getting downvoted was bc they were spamming in the comment section after getting asked to stop.
Yeah…someone mentioned edge of sleep and all I said was don’t talk about eos here as that has been the only thing on the subreddit recently. I said it respectfully and actually upvoted the original comment! Plus I have watched all of Eos twice now so idk. But oh well 🥲 hope you had a great weekend 👍
policing someone else's comments just because YOU don't like seeing TEOS mentioned everywhere on a subreddit where it is 100% relevant because mark is the main character is definitely complaining. saying "don't talk about TEOS here!" is literally only going to make people talk about it more because it's a ridiculous statement to make here. if you don't like seeing it everywhere, then leave the subreddit for a couple of weeks so it's not spammed all over your home page. then just come back when regular posts continue. but yeah, people are definitely going to talk about it regardless because it is relevant to this sub. sorry pal, you don't get to dictate that. also, in regards to the downvotes. people are downvoting you because of how ridiculous it is to tell people not to talk about something markiplier related on the markiplier sub. and there is no need to get pressed about it, you're really gonna get all upset over some fake internet points that don't actually mean anything? what are you, 12? grow up. this is the MARKIPLIER subreddit. everyone is talking about something MARKIPLIER is involved in. you don't necessarily have to support every single thing he does or asks us as the fans to do and you don't have to take part in what he has recently asked of us if you don't want to, but at least have support from the sidelines for his dreams and passions and hope for the success of projects he is heavily involved in. if the heavy spam from other fans annoys you, then you can take a break and back off from a platform that discusses him and his projects and still be a fan of his. again, you are in control of what you see on this app.
you're also getting downvoted for policing a comment section that isn't even yours
Yes I know. I have written a apology on the subreddit
there was no need to do that, probably just 1000 people out of the million of people in this subreddit saw you, so most of them don't know who you are... not trying to be mean, but...
That’s nice 👍
I'm calling out Phreak
As head of game balance he's been intentionally refusing to nerf Maokai. [Phreaks op.gg](https://www.op.gg/summoners/na/Phreak-Puns)

[His Maokai number of games](https://gyazo.com/d847fbd2ff5fac33052cd4d94127eafe).

[Maokai's winrate and matches](https://gyazo.com/39b1e6991fef555828d5f8db8b3d1fa1).

Since the start of the season he's been overwhelming. He had a 55% winrate, and rather than nerfing him, he got "adjustments" and that lowered his winrate by less than 1% [Here's Tyler1 ranting about Maokai deserving a hotfix](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1jcT-UNDeZk). That was a month ago. [Here's another rant 9 days ago](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=S_F5Vq4x0i8).

This is abuse of power. It's why Senna has spiked in pick rate as a marksmen, and other support champions are popping up else where in the game. Like Brand and Zyra jungle. Imagine if Maokai was any other champion. Look at Twisted Fate adc for example. He got a slap on the wrist nerf after 1 patch, then in 14.5 they're gutting him. The changes to his E dropping from 75% ad to 25% ad is massive. But Maokai? Small adjustments, small changes, they don't want to make him weak, and we all now know the reason why..

&#x200B;

They removed this post from the league of legends subreddit, because I'm targeting Phreak. But everyone needs to know.

&#x200B;

Read my reply to [**powerfamiliar**](https://www.reddit.com/user/powerfamiliar/) **in the comments. It goes in more detail about the nerfs and such.** 
This was my reply in main and since were reposting. 

Phreak plays whatever is broken, he doesnt buff whatever he's playing. If he did it the other way around, say he was a Maokai main and buffed Maokai so he could climb it would be unfair, but using whatever is OP in any given patch is fine, there's always gonna be an OP in any given patch.
Bros gonna risk a decade long career and his whole livelihood for some lp? Touch grass man.
Every post that blames Phreak for literally anything just proves his position is a scapegoat and discourages anyone to replace him
You should listen to The Dive episode where Phreak discusses the fact that Riot internally have known Maokai is strong for over a year and that ultimately at all levels people were building him wrong (back in the Evenshroud tank days jungle/support).

He said every build that included movespeed was several % higher in win rate because that's his most useful stat and allows him to get on top of people.

People have since, due to massive game state changes of new items discovered this and finally realising he is overpowered BUT Phreak explained everyone with an optimal build is strong and that Maokai performing well in multiple roles is intentional. He has counters that do win against him but they have low pick rates but that also he doesn't crush any specific match ups. He's just strong consistently.

Thus they want to now knock him down a bit rather than gutting him, he disappears, rebuffing and he suddenly reappears back to super OP. They want to keep the playerbase but slowly tweak until it sits at a still 50%+ win rate.

You should listen to the podcast. Phreak explains it really well
You’re kinda half right half wrong imo. Does he keep Maokai strong just so he can climb? I dont think so. Does he always play whatever is strongest? Yeah. He was literally doing the exact same thing with Janna a couple weeks ago. She had a super high win rate and he was using her to climb. 

We have to remember that there is a balancing team, not a balancing person. Phreak doesn’t single handedly decide which champs get nerfed or not and the odds of everyone else on that team being okay with not nerfing a champ because he plays it aren’t zero, but they’re close to it. I don’t like Phreak too too much, but he’s really just a “meta abuser,” and because he’s the spokesperson for the people that make the meta, it gives him a bad look. 

Yes, Maokai should be nerfed, but saying that the only reason he hasn’t been is because “Phreak wants to climb” is honestly sort of a ludicrous claim.
He’s gotten 3 nerfs in a row. He’s getting another one next patch. Relax man
[deleted]
Maybe he is spamming Maokai just to learn why he is strong, and how to balance him without gutting the champ?
Yeah buddy shit on a player for playing the game optimally.
How else are they going to nerf him if they don’t play him to know what makes him strong? Do you really think he prioritizes lp over his career?
You know that there is a team of people and he isn't even the shot caller right???
Yall got way too much time on your hands
LMAO what is this take, he is not some random dude sitting in a garage that needs lp that bad man, hilarious. sanest league player
You should at least watch the videos by the guy you're hating on where he literally talks about everything he does in his job and what he thinks about it in autistic detail before having a tantrum. 

https://youtu.be/UQZ8zCGFtU0?t=3348

And obviously he'd know if something is busted and abusable, it is literally his job.
Shocker the person with limited time in high elo plays the easiest role with the easiest champ. Just pick a top tier
tyler ranting about "broken" champs while playing illaoi is insane
Bro you should stop playing League and find something different

  
You sound like your whole life revolves around this game, you "call out" some guy that works on the balance TEAM and scan every game of his just to justify whatever happens in your games

put the effort your doing in this crap in something you actually benefit from jesus league players
I’ll be the devil’s advocate here and say what no one wants to hear. Maokai himself is NOT broken. Maokai is being enabled by items this season that have allowed him to excel far better than previous seasons. The support item and deadman’s support item have allowed him to perform much stronger than intended. The champion is nonexistent elsewhere except in the support lane despite adjustments. I’m not saying Maokai isn’t currently strong, but he isn’t overtuned, it’s the items on him. If this was not the case, we would have seen rants on him day on end last season as well.

I still think Phreak is a stinker because of what he said about Yone
Phreak lived long enough to see himself become the Villain!
I mean, I asked why I got put in a game with 4 people that all had 0-6% winrates and how that's even a thing and they deleted my thread. They don't care fam. Lux skin dropping next patch.
Made a similar post in adc before seeing this : [https://www.reddit.com/r/ADCMains/comments/1b6riu2/remember\_when\_kaisa\_was\_instanerfed\_for\_having/](https://www.reddit.com/r/ADCMains/comments/1b6riu2/remember_when_kaisa_was_instanerfed_for_having/)

Phreak is literally dev abusing and League's balancing is compromised by dev bias. 

Riot need to get a hold of themselves
If 1 person would have that much influence, this would be the smallest problem of the balance team.
It's funny because OP's argument isn't because of stats or anything. It's just specifically trying to target Phreak because OP has issues with him. If Phreak was playing Braum every single game or Morgana then you would have NEVER made this post.
This post is either a masterclass in trolling, or the strongest evidence I've ever seen that League's player base is educationally challenged.
The bias is real and we are NOT imagining it. Just because someone personally dislikes the impact a player in a certain role can have does not justify the obliteration of that role in response. Personal agendas of the Riot balance team need to be checked and it has gone unchecked for far too long.
Tbh I don’t even see mao in ranked games, I am Emerald 1 rn and if I see mao i just pick tahm or taric. It‘s a very easy matchup and I have 100% winrate in 5 games against him. But that problem is probably more for pro play and high elo and his winrate doesn’t lie. Ig I just got lucky.
I’m pretty sure a lot of their nerfs/buffs revolve around pro play so if they think a meta in pro play is good/fun to watch they don’t jump to nerf it so fast
Shouldnt the guy running the balance team of LEAGUE OF LEGENDS be somesort of mathematician or something not some random dude?
But this isn’t phreak account 😅
Janna player and op of the month abuser, so actual skill is more like gold
You are 100% right and everyone should know. He didnt give a damn about balance for his own benefit and he deserves to get punished for that. His acc should get permabanned for cheating and he should finaly get removed from the balance team. Thats not the only reason this should happen, he is WAY too incompetent for this job. Everything he does( the positive changes)  i could do 10x better and faster. not that he madee many positive changes.
If you're upset about Maokai this season, you should really look at his crazy MMR spike last season out of nowhere. He was sitting in Emerald with a 50% WR. Then randomly starts playing Janna and goes 14-4, climbing all the way to Masters like he payed for someone to boost his account. He mained Senna with a 46% WR, didn't play a lot of games total, and randomly spikes Master. Just not a normal arc for even extremely talented players. Let alone someone who has been stuck diamond their entire life and plays only around 50 games a season.....

Keep in mind he played ADC and Jungle in previous seasons. He just started playing support last season in Solo Queue... definitely something off here. You don't just go from playing Nocturne for 2-3 seasons straight to winning almost 80% of your games on Janna. There is no correlation in the skills required to play those champs. Top it off with the fact last year you received pretty horrible LP +/- splits that they literally had to fix -- it makes no sense how he was able to reach Masters without someone adjusting his account MMR, especially considering it's history. Food for thought  :)
I don't understand the hate, its not like playing OP picks will get you to climb, you will be hardstuck at whatever rank when you reach near 50 percent until you improve again. Have you thought maybe having an insane amount of game knowledge will make climbing easier even if you are not micro gifted.
 bullshit about people are "ok" with maokai having a 52% winrate. or he is "balanced" at 52% for some reason. 

meanwhile evelynn gets her main ability gutted. pretty sure eve has a pretty big playerbase too. hopefully people just quit. more junglers gone.
Only a jungle main could be this dense.
hes strong, but people are also bad at countering stuff that is strong
Complete bull on your reasoning. Phreak wouldn't have the job he does if it was as simple as he's mailing them.

However maokai has been strong for waaaaaaaaaay too long and I don't have much of a clue as to why it's taken this long. Though he's not the first or last champion they'll manage this with.
Phreak doesn't care about you .  Shut up
I swear I can replace the entire balance team alone. They are clowns and at this point any high elo player that played the game for more than 8 years can do a better job. 

Some examples from last patch alone:

1. Obviously maoki, every sane person will know he is op because he has too much cc and his point and click w let him cc chain you with all his skills. Also e can be quite too strong to control the lane bushes. The obvious nerf is cd on w and e. But riot nerf his q damage by 5% and lower his r cc duration by a 0.2 seconds which is basically nothing.

2. Ksante being omega tanky while having crazy damage and cc chain you during ult. Obvious nerf is to make him less tanky and more oppretunity to break free from his combo. Riot instead gave him like 30% more damage reduction or  whatever and made him slower a bit. 

3. Lulu is a handless champ that is being abused by every boosters duo with kog and twitch. Riot buff her by crazy amounts for no reason. Tell me the last game you played vs a lulu with kog or twitch and you won. It's one of the most disgusting op handless strategies in the game and it did not need a buff.

4. Ad tf being omega broken, idk how the buffs even went in, but a patch later they nerfed his ap ratios lol. Such clowns.

There are a ton more like asol q stack that got hot fixed (why pve even exist?). Smolder getting 225 stacks at 20 mins. Trundle was so op for so long and the only change they did to him was listed under qol but was q range buff, which is a buff. 

I can go for days. Bottom line is this entire team needs to be ashamed of themselves and replaced. Starting with phreak. Don't get me started on what he did to jungle I swear.
Not the first time the balance team decisions seems to be related to their personal experience
If this is the case then fuck you phreak
I'd be mad if he had a80% win rate but 60% isn't even that bad lol. I'd do the same tbh

You don't want maokai? Ban him then just like how I always ban Yasuo bc of the damn fucking windwall
Thats too small a sample size to draw any statistical conclusions. Need like another 30-50 patches minimum to say anything conclusive. 

Good thing we do have that and much more so if anyone would be bothered to compile phreaks games per champ for each patch historically, transform patch notes into maybe a time series dummy variable of buff/neutral and nerf/neutral and lastly historical rating for those champions, WR, pick rate, I would be happy to check for correlation and different causality metrics.
>As head of game balance he's been intentionally refusing to nerf Maokai.

Hah. That's nothing.

Ol' preaky boy nerfed Sion a bunch of times because '*MUH HEARTSTEEL*' but now he made heartsteel 'item health only', massively nerfing it for Sion in the process, which was the point. So revert the nerfs/huge compensation buffs? 'nah, it'll be fine because uhhh ZMOG I'M GETTING DEF FRETS!!' ......  we used to rag on Morello & Ghostcrawler back in the day but even at their worst, they were never as bad as preak's 'normal'.
I think the bigger issue is that support the role is giga op and it only got stronger this season when he swtiched over to it. Now that he's a sup main the role is insanely broken.
Here is a recording of one of your recent games, try adding it to your main post to get better feedback!: [https://www.replays.lol/app/game/4833823523864576](https://www.replays.lol/app/game/4833823523864576). 

***

[Who am I?](https://www.reddit.com/r/summonerschool/comments/151wdup/ive_built_a_reddit_bot_that_will_automatically/) | I am a bot
The actual reason is that Maokai is balanced on Top and bad on Jg, his two original roles.
Tf is now straight B or C from S indeed , good that someone noticed. Phreak is just phreak , and am sure how everyone can see hes keeping his fav champions untouched like Mao , Janna , Sona , and directly nerfing hard any champ that are even close to even giving them a run off. Not surprised at this point cause this is what reality of Phreak and Riot is indeed , Lux is called the poster child of riot for a reason , and Yone the poster boy.
Did you watch his video about the 14.5 changes? He mentions many times about nerfing Maokai. I think that was the video
You're not alone, OP. I too consider it abusing his position
Reddit moment
What are u smoking?
Phreak keeping a champ strong on purpose so he can keep abusing it is little kid logic. Grow up
I think the truth is he doesn't really know how to nerf his support role without destroying his jungle role.

If he nerfs his support items, it will affect other supports.
shut up and play and don't bitch
Just ban Maokai...
Ironically you reference tyler1 who said on stream the other day that you are delusional if you think the balance team are intentionally not nerfing a champ due to a single person wanting to play it
I'm not saying you're wrong but I like the argumentation of *here's X streamer that always whines and shouts, whining and shouting at maokai*
Not the first time it happened and probably not the last
Not sure I buy it. Yes, they've whiffed on nerfing mao, but IMO it has to do with the fact that they have a very specific balance framework that "compels" them to do things in certain cases.

If they nerfed Mao to be "in line" in support, then he'd be unplayable in Top/JG and their balance framework would compel them to buff which puts them back in square 1. Seraphine is in the same situation, just with lower play rate, because Seraphine. They can neither buff nor nerf Seraphine, but they also need to do both per their own framework. This is why they usually don't like champions that exist in too many roles.
It's clinically insane that you think he could even pull this off if he wanted to. As a public figure, there are more eyes on him than most employees. 
Also, and this is important for anyone too young to have worked a real job yet, just because he's head of balance, doesn't mean he has final say on balance issues. He has a boss, who's responsible for him/his outputs, so if he purposefully delayed nerfing a champ, he'd be getting called up on it.
Rent free lol
I don’t believe he intentionally made and set out to make Maokai overpowered and would risk his job to do that. He is like everyone else, he plays whatever is blatantly overpowered to climb. If I saw 52% WR Caitlyn as an adc main, of course I’ll spam Caitlyn, it’s the nature of solo queue. 

That said, what I do consider abuse of power is when you’re the head of something, intentionally abusing an extremely overpowered champion for patches on end, and only giving “minor adjustments” while proceeding to benefit off of it. That to me is blatantly abuse of power and should be criticized.
Maokais beens needed. And maybe hes spamming maokais for wins but also to understand which parts should be nerfed as to not gut the champion
Also hard nerfed jungle after crying about the role
And when I thought that Reddit can't be more retarded this pop up. Dude really think Dev put as much attention on their LP like it has any meaning💀
Abuse of power....
Chad
You posted this in 6 different subs you sad sack of shit, lol.

The Riot employees are not out to get you.
Mapkai is always gonna be strong because of his ult and having a 30 second long range ghost poro that explodes with a massive AOE slow. Needing his number aren't gonna change what makes him strong. In order to deal with him they have to rework his kit.... Again.... For I think this would be the fourth time. I dunno he's nearing ryze levels of rework issues.
saying this for ages, but people doesn't care
Honestly seeing posts like this makes me appreciate the job of rioters even more given they probably see dumbass bad faith shit like this on the regular.

Also if you're seriously entertaining this idea you need to both touch grass and you drastically need to rethink your priorities in life lmao.
Can someone drop phreaks op.gg
Well he IS going to drop some pretty good nerfs next patch, so ye. Riots always done this thing where they take their time to nerf ungodly shit (like tempo)
If it’s so OP then ban it??
So the comments saying phreak buffing shit cause he uses them I don’t agree with , I do agree that he’s scum , and he abuses whatever is broken and I love how in his “patch previews” he leaves that out that he abuses moakai LOL he always abuses the strong shit
It’s so funny that people here think that the reason Phreak isn’t nerfing Maokai is just because he’s playing him. Y’all are an absolute joke lmao
Funny how objectively speaking very mediocre player such as Phreak in very mediocre server such as NA can be stucking in low diamond for 10 years while maining hardest roles (Jungle + ADC) but and then he swaps for support & picks champion (that he is purposely not nerfing) randomly gains around 800 LP in one run.   
  
LOL, must be insane skill inflow - all that for little bit of cloud from normies that will praise him for his GM/Chall even after he drops back to diamond next seson xD
Many ppl already know Phreak was an awful addition to the balance team, ive literally quit because of his changes...
I got a few spare rolls of aluminum foil for yall.
Someone ban this moron from this sub, how do posts like this get through?
i have waxed poetic for over a decade about how impressive it is that a game such as league has remained relatively well balanced for so long and phreak has ruined it. i no longer say this to people who don't play in an attempt to get them to give it a try.
He actually talks about Maoaki in his most recent dive episode. They are planning further nurfs on him. U gotta relax my dude.
What gets me is that this is decidedly not a tank meta and maokai is uniquely powerful as a tank in multiple roles. There have been champs that have been 52% win rate for years and I long believed that it was just because Riot has some balance team member who spams nothing but Anivia because her win rate has sat at 52\~ for literal years untouched.
"I'm calling out Phreak because everyone needs to know"

Relax bro, you're not a hero, you're just a cancerlowbob redditor with no skills, achievements, or accolades in the game desperately clamoring around for something/someone you can blame for your own abysmal performances

Focus on yourself instead of wasting time blaming outside factors that don't affect you whatsoever

Phreak plays the strong champions, it's what he's done for quite a while now. If you had access to the same intricacies of data, you'd do the exact same thing if you're intending to climb (providing you're not attached to a specific champion, ie, one tricking/maining)

He did the same on Janna, he did the same on Senna, Seraphine, Swain, and now, Maokai

Maokai will be nerfed and replaced with another champion in the position of strongest support, and I'm willing to bet he'll switch to that right after

Maokai is a champion with three distinct roles, support, jungle, and top

It can be argued that gutting jungle and top for one patch in order to nerf support and compensating with buffs in the next patch to buff the other two back to viability is a valid strategy. I don't agree or disagree, but the balance team as a collective decided otherwise

Maokai has *always* been a strong support, it's only annoying now because he's popular so you play against it constantly

Maokai at 51.5 - 52.5% winrate would be, believe it or not, the exact same place he's been for years! With no problem! Because barely anyone played him.

But it's okay man! Maokai is surely the reason you're stuck in cancerlow, surely once you finish your grand crusade against riot phreak you will instantly become challenger player, saving league of legends for good!
I love how he fell from gm to master as soon as maokai reached a 51 wr and now only plays janna which hes been abusing since 13.22. Wackaflcka analysed one of his games recently (gm chally twitch jg and sup otp euw) and phreak literally plays like a diamond or very low master player.
I think he doesn't nerf Mao so he can reach a decent elo above the typical d4 that he was always in and then brag to high elo players about how he is also high elo and he actually knows what he is doing etc.

Idk though maybe he is just delusional and thinks Mao is in a balanced spot.
Reminds me the time when kaisa was broken and he  turned into a  kaisa otpXD
[removed]
He has been aware of the fact that it is OP for 4 patches already. Clearly not qualified even if he isn’t abusing his power.
This makes it worse not better, since he's playing it he should understand what the problem is EVEN BETTER and be able to serve out a fix for it, the fact that its gone on this long and he still does nothing is what looks bad, crap arguments like this piss me off.
Inaction is still an action.  


Edit to clarify, Im not saying he shouldnt be allowed to play it (and I dont think OP was either) but playing it, knowing its strong (backed up by an inflated winrate data to prove it) and not pushing nerfs for it is still pretty low.
Seriously, are people crazy? Even logically, "GUYZ! FREAK IS CHEATING, AND ALL IT MIGHT COST HIM IS HIS JOB"
Let's say that i'm head of the balance team, my goal should be to balance the champions. If i'm playing something because it's op and i know it's op as the head of the balance team i will NERF said OP champion or that should be my goal anyways. It's also a conflict of interest for me to even play the game since if im climbing with a certain champ i will be biased against nerfing it.
No other champion would be slowly nerfed down and adjusted like he is. As I said, TF has undergone a mini rework, and is getting guttered on the second patch. Since the mini rework. Dropping his ad scaling on his E from 75% > 25%. While Maokai gets small insignificant changes so people can say "he's been nerfed 3 times in a row" okay. Removing 1 hp from a champ 100 times in a row is 100 nerfs in a row. (My point is hyperbolic but it gets the point across) He is head of game balance which means all balance changes go through him. So, is he abusing Maokai because he's strong? Yes. However, he's also refusing to nerf the champion properly. Any other champion, (if Phreak wasn't playing them) would be hard nerfed. Smolder is another example. W was doing too much damage, so they nerfed it the next patch.

&#x200B;

Maokai's nerf 14.4.

Base Stats  
Base Armor: 39 ⇒ 35  
Q - Bramble Smash  
Magic Damage: 70/120/170/220/270 (+2/2.5/3/3.5/4% of the target's maximum health) (+40% AP) ⇒ 65/115/165/215/265 (+2/2.5/3/3.5/4% of the target's maximum health) (+40% AP)  
R - Nature's Grasp  
Root Duration: 0.8-2.6 seconds (based on distance traveled capped at 1000 units) ⇒ 0.75-2.25 seconds (based on distance traveled capped at 1000 units)

They took 4 armor, 5 damage, and 0.5-0.35 root duration from his R. You call that a nerf? 

&#x200B;

Maokai 14.5 nerfs

Base Stats  
Movement Speed: 335 ⇒ 330  
Bramble Smash  
   
Bramble Smash (Q)  
Monster Damage: 80/100/120/140/160 ⇒ 120/130/140/150/160  


Twisted Advance  
Twisted Advance (W)  
Cooldown: 13/12/11/10/9 ⇒ 14/13/12/11/10

5 ms, 1 second cd, but buffed his monster damage.... You call these nerfs?? These "nerfs" will drop his winrate maybe half a %. MAYBE

&#x200B;

Lets look at someone else, someone less oppressive, someone with less matches. By 100k. Because Maokai has 196,513 matches and this champion has 96,199 matches.

I'm talking about Evelynn.  
Evelynns nerfs 14.5

Hate Spike (Q  
AP Ratio: 30% ⇒ 25%  
Maximum AP Ratio 1.95 ⇒ 1.75  


That's a fucking nerf. Not 5 ms and 1 second. Btw, the champ builds the sleigh sup item + swifties + trailblazor. Who the fuck cares about 5 ms. That's literally 5 ms in laning phase, and he's running you down regardless.   


  
Sorry I took this out on you a bit, I didn't mean too. I love you and I hope you're having a lovely day.

Also as a final side note, I posted this across every mains subreddit, and this one has been the most toxic with its replies. Just a little fun fact.
The critique is that if the champion is played by phreak, it takes forever to nerf him. 

When lillia had the same wr as maokai in the beginning of the season she got nerfed really really hard (-5%wr) withing 2 patches. 

Maokai hasnt seen that hard nerf for 5 patches in a row now. Yes they nerfed him a little but also buffed his items in the same patch
It'ss been op for a while. No one is accusing phreak of intentionally keeping op mao to climb elo

What's being implied is that phreak might be biased. You know, the same way that on the jungle mains subreddit people will always say jungle is too weak and on the adc mains subreddit people will always say adcs are too weak
Homie posted this in the main sub and every rolemain sub. Grass was not touched.
Riot Tryndamere could adjust his MMR to whatever he wanted, yet he still paid someone to duo boost his account.
I think you overestimate the professionalism in Riot.
Ever heard of epsteins island ?
Phreak when he sees no-brilliant from Reddit is calling him out 😨😨😨
I wish i was this ignorant. 

People in power have done far worse things my dude.
> Bros gonna risk a decade long career ... /u/According-Spite-9854 

What 'decade long career'? he was a riot dev in the early days but dropped out to do e-casting. He was officially recruited back later but unless you count non-consecutive years, he has not been in either 'career' for a straight decade. There is no 'decade long career' to risk.

Either way, he already 'risked' whatever career he has on something far more petty  & asinine, I.e.

> "*You can type karthus ult. It's not hard*"
>
> -- **Lead balance dev, preak, showing he knows less about league than  a talcum V player**
I don’t really like phreak’s takes more often than not. I don’t Yone, akali, and irelia will always be touchy Champs because they designed them that way, but this post is ignorant in all manners and just bitching.
That's what happens when you're arrogant, condescending, incompetent and wrong too often.
Phreak is terrible at his job and should not be in charge of balancing, but I'm not going to pretend that's because he wants to win more on soloq
Study and watch Phreak's persona.

He is 100% the type to be blindsided by his own ego. His whole literal persona is '' I'm smarter than you, your argument is invalid '' Whilst being super condesending to the playerbase and even pros & content creators. 

If someone would dev abuse, it's this manchild.
Its true that his job is a scapegoat, but its also true that he is very incompetent at his job. Just because this position is a scapegoat doesnt mean he is in fact doing a good job.

The game is unbalanced since it exists, and every time they add something new they cant do it right. To me it looks like riot doesnt hire for qualification. It took him more than 2 months to finaly realize how broken support is when it was completely obvious to me on day 1, Not to mention that they were working on it even prior to the release of the new season, so might as well add several more months to notice obvious flaws. If i was in charge there, this mess woudnt have made it to live like this.  They also still didnt fix jungle, its incredibly weak. ALso toplane is still the most broken lane which they still havent noticed. Also Janna is still manace, boots of swiftness are broken, they nerfed lethal tempo recently and didnt give any compensation  for their users. I agree that this rune was broken, it should have been nerfed years ago and thats when i would have done it, but them doing it now just proves their incompetence.  The item changes also made no sense, if they wanted to remove the mythik, which i never wanted to have in the first place, all they had to do was keep the myhthic item the same, remove the mythic effect and maybe slightly adjust them, but now we had this chaos with ap items, the ap items are still not satisfying, tank items, especially mr items are still too broken, crit adcs are still not present and crit itself has always been a problem. Also mercury boots have been problematic, they are too good for their price. The Champions were all "balanced" around the Items of the previous season, they just changed and threw in new items for no real reason and let this chaos happen. That is incompetence. and several champions need heavy adjustments. toplane has too much true damage , toplane exp needs to get nerfed, There is way too much Hp in the game, and void grubs are annoying as well. When they get a shield. you cant really tell how much you need to damage them for your smite to finish them. God, and im only scraping the surface of the beginning of this season. There are still so many problems with matchmaking and smurfing. Ghost as summonerspell as well as cleanse have always been too good. 

But i can tell you those problems would have been fixed by me before this season would have even started, thats the difference between incompetent trash and a person who is actually playing the game. 

And yes, playing Support lulu or Yuumi and sitting in the backline is NOT playing the game. Thats what Riot August thought and said during his stream. And you have someone delusional like him balancing the game too.
Many people will not remember the days where rioters where afraid to engage with community. Phreak real job is to deal with one of the worse gaming communities out there
Do you think these people would ever do actual research????
Thinking about this, it makes me wonder if, with the stats available to them, riot could cook some god tier builds that the rest of us haven’t even considered yet.
> Riot internally have known Maokai is strong for over a year and that ultimately at all levels people were building him wrong

so why does the public not have this information
Wait what's The Dive?
Also, by playing what is strong in order to climb is literally what everyone should do
The fact that he got hit 3 times and is still one of the best champ in the game should ring a bell :3
Still don't get why they gotta buff random shit to compensate but I guess rito moment
Why isn't target winrate 50%?
Remember, you can type Karthus ult. its not hard.
Is not "optimally", is abusing something busted. You're not good, the champ is. The moment said champ is nerfed people will drop
Thank you ! You really opened my eyes . I have to do something productive instead of playing this shit game
He act like LP has any meaning outside of the community lmao. Like no one irl give a fuck you are master+ in a game.
Since when is Master/GM in NA high elo? I am serious btw, multiple EUW people showed they can do it from EU with 150ping
? Illaoi got gutted last path after being good for one patch and is sitting at 48% wr. I get she is annoying (I perma banned her last patch) but saying she is broken is ridiculous
Phreaks been the villain since season 13. He's flamed the Vel'koz community, basically calling them idiots, he told them they didn't give useful feedback. He's condescending af. He's tried gaslighting the whole community against the ADC mains because "we don't build defensive items when given the chance" Despite the fact that they had to nerf the defensive items he's talking about because we were using them, and they were broken. He's a straight asshole bro.
In patch 14.4 Maokai had a 54% win rate bud.   


Does Braum or Morgana have the same win rate? He made this post cause Phreak is on the balance team abusing broken champs that he balances.
I dunno about removing him from the balance team. It's a hard game to balance. I just think it's bs that he slowly nerfed the champ down rather than hitting it harder in 1 patch. But the company/balance team should consider things like this can and will happen.
You're right they should just gut her passive instead.
I feel like a champ being able to kill you with no counterplay should be nerfed heavily. That’s why assassins that are overtuned get smacked harder than something that only punishes your mistakes
evelynn is broken tho
OP posted it everywhere
He has 0 losing matchups in support https://u.gg/lol/champions/maokai/build
You're right.

When Maokai was reworked, the justification was 'He has too much reliable power in his kit (No "counter-play")'  but the rework has even **less** counter-play. In the old days, a lot of Maokai's power-budget went to his ultimate; A huge AoE, persistent  "team mitigation buff"/nuke/thorns-ish type ability. It was insanely strong even with minimal coordination while also having low CD. The mitigation worked for nearly everything (20% less total dmg I think?)  and there was no real counter-play other than just don't fight near Maokai. However, at least his ult was a fkking skillshot and could be avoided.

They gave him a new, much weaker ult but jacked up the power of his normal skills, failing to recognize that his normal skills are *functionally impossible to counter* (W bypasses grounded/Q is hard to miss but very low CD anyway/E forces you to take the hit with only dashes getting you away, etc.).  WTF were they thinking? we all told rito this would happen many years ago and I'm surprised it took this long.
60% winrate is definitely bad idk what you're on about
Phreak has proven multiple times that he indeed is acting like a lil kid that played season 1 in his moms basement
Yea unfortunately his CC is what defines him as a champion so removing that would not only make him worth less to a team but would also change the champs style by a lot.
He isn't the only one in the team you realize that, right?

However he probably knows that his team and himself aren't about to nerf him anytime soon and he abuses it, like everyone should do.
what kind of retarded parasocial take is this? doesnt EVERYONE want to draft priority picks?
Imo Phreak is destroying the game, adc's don't want to play anymore , and jng massively losing players along with Nerf justifications being not that something was op or unfair, but just that it was stale he's not moving the game in a better direction
He could just abuse a different OP champ. Guy literally roll switched to support to win more, he's not a one trick who buffs his main constantly.
People who commit full time into a job tend to care less about LP; at a certain point you realize it's really not worth it or meaningful. Those who are really invested into a game treat it seriously and therefore be more angry. It's why the gaming community is known for its rather childish and immature behaviour. It's perfectly fine to be invested into a game, but treating as if adults who have a job (there are exceptions of course, like a streamer) care about LP enough to brag, is a delusion.
Considering they did call out how much they hoped to bring his winrate down and failed to achive that result, I am not convinced they failed to realise that Maokai is strong.
Check the dive episode with him, they talk about maokai.
Didn’t they hard nerf Janna more than they expected in 13.22 so they buffed her back in 13.23. Wouldn’t just the fact that she got nerfed in 13.22 go against that argument he buffs his mains?
You played league before Phreak was the balance lead? You wouldn't even be getting soft nerfs to Maokai before him. Stuff used to stay busted - without nerfs - for months at a time. At least he is actively trying to nerf the champ. You're just mad he isn't trying to gut it to useless tier. He knows he can't risk that without making MASSIVE changes to pro play. Soft nerfing the champ over time to a more reasonable spot IS the right decision. It always has been. Hard nerfing and buffing have always resulted in some of the worst changes to this game from a balance standpoint.
How is that worse, and how is it a crap argument? I’m not disagreeing with you that they’ve failed to properly nerf Maokai support. My argument is that their failure is not out of malice or because Phreak wants some free LP. 

If you want to say the balance team is incompetent for how they’ve handled Maokai this season I wouldn’t argue with you, I’m not even sure how I would argue against that. But to say that it’s because Phreak wants free LP is idiotic.
But he has been pushing for nerfs? From he's vids it seems he's been pushing for even more nerfs than there have been but Maokai support has been in the nerf list now 3 patches in a row. That by itself shows they've failed at balancing him, partly because they don't want to kill jungle as collateral and last patch partly because of the support item buffs, the nerf itself would've probably been enough. 

You could call them incompetent I guess, but do you think they keep nerfing Maokai and not getting it right just so Phreak can get a bit more LP?
They've nerfed Maokai 3 patches in a row (including next patch), their mistake was buffing his support item in 14.4 which dulled the impact.
Lmaooo. They are the same delusional idiots who think every game they lose is team diff. Just the most frustrating players
Wait you seriously think the balance team shouldn't play the game?
And they are nerfing him lol

All of you bozos wouldn’t nerf mao you bozos would literally kill the champ and call it a nerf
So you do think that the LoL balance team has bothered to put up Maokai in every patch, and spend whatever effort it took to implement those fixes but held back on them because Phreak needed some LP?

&#x200B;

It's just a ridiculous accusation. 14.5 Phreak is gonna play whatever is OP that patch, he'll do that in 14.6, and 7 and so on.
If you think 5ms and 4 base armor are not nerfs, you reveal that you have no clue what you're talking about.

Especially on a support
"No other champion would be slowly nerfed"

You are wrong at so many levels. Many broken champions/items have been slowly nerfed, especially if they do not have high pick rates on low elo.  The reason is because if they gut the champion too much, they won't have enough data to make further decisions, since pick rate will plummet, and because they need more than a single patch to see how the champion stats change.
Briar was op for multiple patches as well, maokai isn't specifically getting small changes so phreak can climb man, relax
You severely underestimate how impactful 5ms nerf will be, I would expect it to be more impactful than Evelynn nerf
I'm a briar main. She has received half nerfs and compensated nerfs basically 75% of the patches she's been around for. I am not on the balance team. Some champs are just blessed. I think it's more coincidence then insidious that maokai is one of these. Also like....yes maokai is too strong but I largely feel champs like maokai being good is a good thing for the game.
But has this been true with any other champion he’s spammed while OP? When Rammus was OP and he was spamming him he got nerfed so hard he almost became unplayable right away. Isn’t it much much more likely that they just failed at nerfing Maokai properly because they didn’t want to nerf one of his roles than because Phreak wanted some more LP?
What do you mean no one is accusing him of keepin maokai op? The very first line of the post is “he’s been intentionally refusing to nerf Maokai”.
YOOOO i brought this up in a youtube comment the other day and as usual noone wanted to hear/believe it xDDDD
Wait what?
coughcough like the sexual harassment scandal ? 

Riot is literally the new Blizzard, people have to stop with the nostalgia glasses and holding them to such standards.
I think you overestimate how important lp is valued by other people
I mean is it a bad idea if they all got away with it?
Of course, but this game used to go months without any meaningful balance changes. People just seem to forget that. At least we have a dev who communicates with us and actively tries to make changes consistently. I mean people are losing their mind over Maokai who... has been nerfed multiple times? People are literally mad the balance team isn't just gutting Maokai as a champ? Lmao. They routinely cry whenever the developer team knee jerk nerf or buffs a champ. Now they are also upset that Riot is... gradually nerfing a champ? I swear so many people act just like Tarzaned. Completely immature self-centered brats. Is Phreak perfect? Absolutely not. Do I think the grass will be greener on the other side? No. Hell no. Phreak's ego, if anything, is keeping the game in check to some degree. You want a yes man in there? Or someone coming from a different triple A game? Good luck. You'll get no transparency, and all the changes will be 100% based around how to maximize profits. We literally saw this when GhostCrawler was part of the team lmao


In an ideal world, Riot would hire some outside person from some smaller but successful game. That would probably be the best way to achieve true balance. However, Riot is not going to risk hurting their bottom line with some unproven or inexperienced person. They want veterans heading the team. Be it from their own staff or other big games.
I know my bro, but let me hold onto this shred of hope.
It's the same career switching positions in a company is a very standard thing.
he has been Challenger for many years back in season 4-5, he absolutely is better than basically every player here.

the karthus ult thing isnt even his decision, he just has to defend riot on whatever choice they make, do you really thinl that he can go "actually, the ping changes are dumb as fuck but whatever, shit company anyway"
It's what happens when you do your job as a member of the balance team and interact with the community with his patch rundown he has absolutely no obligation to do. This community acts like Phreak is the root of all evil in balancing when he's just the same as his multiple predecessors, if not more well known due to his contribution to the game since the start of this game. If anybody's arrogant and incompetent it's this ungrateful community who doesn't understand how balanced LoL is, so much so that 55% wr is considered broken and game-warping.
The Phreak simps in this thread are outrageous. He isn’t the “fall guy”. He’s genuinely incompetent at his job and it shows patch after patch.
You mean, like anonymous league players on Reddit?
Bud, you either get a dev with an ego that is willing to do what they think is right, OR you get a dev who will just prioritize the shareholders with all their changes. You need someone with a backbone to keep the corporate shills in check. You can hate his personality, but I respect his personality. He also has the experience and media presence to find work outside of league. That means he literally put his foot down in some regard without fear. You ever worked a job? Those were my favorite people to work with. They were the reason almost every job I worked was actually bearable. When they got let go, they quit, or whatever, things almost always got worse. I don't agree with Phreak on all the analytics, but that's fine. I am aware enough to realize I'd probably disagree with anyone they put in that position on the analytics. Heck, how many posts and arguments are started on reddit over analytics? There are multiple ways to slice a cake. People who feel inconvenienced slightly and immediately want to see change are not stable people, and those are the last people I want any game, job I work, etc. to have anything based around.
So basically a human
But OP cited not one but TWO tyler1 rants. What additional proof is needed?
Honestly if you listen to Phreak on youtube he often drops which builds are working better on champions. Its often not the most popular build.  


Riot is not usually good at cooking, the community is better at that. What Riot is good at is identifying what builds are actually working, because they obviously have the best data
It's on stat sites but it was low pick rate so it wasnt really widespread. Same with poppy sometime last season when she had wild numbers for a couple patches but no one talked about it
Why would you tell the public that? People choose what champ to play and what to build. You have to remember that most people aren't one tricks (they'll play a champ for a period then choose another) and they'll default to the most common build because that's easier than adapting to the game you are in with not as complete knowledge.

I got yelled at for building Sundered Sky 1st on volibear because its not the recommended build on blitz.gg 

I had 5 K/DA across two wins. It definitely felt good and I would tell others to try it. But I haven't actually got any real information on whether I won and played well because I know how to jungle and play the game vs specific champ and item tech.

My longest period of one tricking was Lillia when I was in gold. I got to top 2000 on EUW when she was in her first season and I ALWAYS built liandries and rylais. I tried other builds but I was so used to every item slowing more with the rylais that I would play worse and not truly test other builds (as in I'd play like I could kite better because I was used to the rylai kiting ability) so I died way more. Stats and general understanding of the game would tell you the slight slow of rylais was not optimal to build on her but it was the best I've ever been at a single champ
You could do similar analysis yourself as a layman using LoLalytics. Personally, I exploit Zilean mid with Rod of Ages. Wouldn't have found it otherwise unless I looked at the stats.
[deleted]
Podcast by the LCS Broadcast team; currently hosted by Kobe, Azael, Meteos, where they talk about LCS and do patch breakdowns
If the focus is only to climb, then yes it’s a good strategy, the only problem is that if the champion(s) that are “OP” aren’t fun to you, then maybe taking a slight dip in wr to have more fun is worth it to you. Which I think is realistically how most of the community plays the game
Phreak has access to all minor stats such as which builds on champions win the most and which champions are sleeper OP. This is why his rank means nothing. He can easily find out whats disgustingly OP and RIot is known to not nerf something until its very popular even if its busted
Hes honestly just good because he has a point and click root, a knock back and free "warding " with his saplings he was good last season too but now the new items fixed the trouble of him having a gap closer enough to catch people
He has dedicated player base for jungle and top so they tried to not kill the champ. Took them long enough to realize sleigh and trailblazer with his W is the reason he is so good
Because jungle maokai is struggling and they want to avoid nerfing it at the same time.

That makes all nerf too minor and not effective.

They will do the riot special (nerf the good item) next patch so I really hope it will do the work and people can shut up (spoiler they won't).
They didn’t want to compensate maokai he isn’t the only champ buying items
If you still don't get it, why not think about it first? Do you think Riot is just making decision on a whim from just one guy? It's a whole team working full time on specifically game balance.
You misunderstood the statement. They buffed items the same patch that Mao’ was nerfed and the item buffs essentially undid the nerfs unintentionally.
Because more champions than just Maokai bought the items that were buffed? It wasn't to compensate for the nerfs on Maokai, it was an attempt to bring up the power of those items a little bit for champions who might want to pick them, but for whom the synergy might not be as blatantly abusable as Maokai + MS
Riot could make it so that every ability and attack does 1 damage and every champion have 10 hp and people would immediately change to champions with resets and fast combos, characters like Lucian or Ezreal would probably be op as fuck. Playing the meta really is just playing optimally. If you don't think it takes skill to constantly re-learn and maintain your rank with [insert high WR champion of the week] I dunno what to say. I wish my playstyle were that amorphous and adaptable. And OTPs practice a different set of skills, ofc, but neither group is "unskilled" for playing the game differently from each other.
Make sure to try and find time to shitpost on the internet about this shit game though.
she was %55 wr in mid
Idk how long he has been the villain, I just know that he is now the villain. I loved Phreak as a commentator, but as the balance lead.. he doesn't seem to care for balance, he seems to care more about what he prefers.
At LoL's peak it was not the same as it is now. It wasn't a game where all characters could 1 shot Squishies. In other words, tanks were tanks. But now they want every role to have assassin levels of damage. Then have the differentiators being mobility or frequency in dealing that damage. It is a very stale formula that makes most champions blend more into being basically the same thing with a different appearance.
Its not hard to balance when you are actually qualified to do it. There are actual competent people in thsi world :) Removing someone completely incompetent is a natural decision.
just delete her from the game. i dont care. 

telling that he only does tiny nerfs to his support shit but happy to gut other champions without a second thought.
theres lots of counter play. any CC and you die instantly. teams that group well eve can barely do anything. 

a smurf draven auto attacked me for 2000 damage??? thats ok?
milio, rell and galio beat him easily (source, i did it in master)
Crazy how I'm getting downvoted. I swear phreak has like 15 accounts here
He is the lead of that team though but ok even if he wasn't then thats even worse. Because now you don't have 1 person not knowing the state of the game/mao, but multiple people not knowing and being clueless.
There is a difference in the player base abusing maokai and phreak doing it. 

What Phreak is doing is basically insider trading but he is in control of the stocks anyway.
He is in charge of the balance team brother...
I'm honestly not sure why the game is balanced by a team in NA either. Why would you balance around NA when all of the competitive scene is based out of China and South Korea?
Thats precisely why normals exist.

League is a competitive game after all. Thats the whole idea of it. If you don't like it, don't play it or just play normals.

Ranked is always going to be serious. If you have a full time job as an adult, then don't play ranked or be prepared to deal with what comes with it.
Mort is the epitome of this. He's one of the best TFT players in the world and knows the game inside and out but the time he does spend playing out-of-office he's constantly trying different comps and testing new changes, constantly going between NA ranked, EUW ranked, and PBE. You can't turn off that switch when you're so invested in it.

I don't know Phreak and the SR balance team as much but I'm sure they have at least a bit of that as well. It's a lot harder to play all the roles and SR PBE is pretty dead but I'm sure they're keeping their keys open. But League is also a competitive game and they'll be looking to climb and have fun as well.

Pro meta is just abusing what's OP as well but team synergy and communication make many solo q OPs not reliable. Not to mention what's strong in high elo might be weak in low elo and vice versa. League simply has too many stipulations when trying to balance something so why not let something slide until a change is absolutely mandatory. Not to mention the spaghetti code.
They want to nerf him without gutting him. Tbh, I think Sejuani being multi-role viable tank is healthier for the game. She is harder to pilot. They shouldn't enable a champ as simple as Maokai as the 'face of multi-role tanks.' It could be another tank, too. I am just mentioning Sej since there was the handshake for a long time in pro of Sej-Mao in jungle with both being possible to flex into other roles
[removed]
The funny part is that he supposedly IS trying to nerf him, but fails to do so for 4 patches in a row until now where it is finally at an ok spot. This is while he’s being paid crazy amounts of money. Clearly just incompetence. Also, it doesn’t matter what the state of it was before him, bad balancing is still bad balancing. Your reasoning is therefore just dumb af. Imagine thinking that finally doing something but still doing it incredibly bad is completely fine when it should be good enough for the pro players/highly knowledgeable people in League to not complain about the balance 24/7. I’d like to remind you that this Phreak moron is being paid in the 6 figures and probably near the 7 considering his position. You’re stupid af for trying to defend him.
Should it take the lead balance designer this long to see there's a problem with the not one but two champions he mains both maokai and janna and do nothing about it for multiple patches in a row?

&#x200B;

You realize your indirectly saying he is so bad that he can't even realize there's a balance issue with the two champions he mains let alone come up with a solution in that time.
Nerfing one role while keeping the others playable seems really hard, see Seraphine's case
Well for the purposes of testing there are many other areas than just playing live games. I'm not saying they shouldnt play though i'm merely pointing out that there is a conflict of interest which is only made worse by the balance team playing OP champs. Because of that conflict of interest many of the balance teams motives behind nerfs/buffs are called into question, like people saying that phreak buffs only the champs he plays etc
And OP will make new posts when phreak finds a new OP champ
100% we had these same accusations when he was abusing Rammus jungle. Is he a rammus jungle main too?
Yeah, playing what's strong is fine. But this is 4 patches where he's in a position to nerf the most broken champion in the game, and refusing too. You think this isn't something they'd be capable of?

He's head of the balance team and knows these nerfs aren't enough. Everybody knows these nerfs aren't enough. So why is it, when I come out and say it, I'm the bad guy? This champion is not only the highest winrate support, he's the most played, and the most banned. There is zero counter to this champion in u.ggs eyes. For 4 patches. But he's nerfing him in 14.5 by 5 ms and 1 second off W. Come on now.. This has to be a joke.
regardless of all that

don't you think it's better if balance team plays champs that aren't op, so they can get a feel for how playing against overtuned champs feels & fix them
OP's point is the fact that he will purposefully slow nerf an OP champ he wants to spam, which isn't that farfetched. He would have a hand in suggesting and passing nerfs on stuff that are clear issues, which Mao has been.  


TF gets hotfixed then nerf patched immediately, Mao has sat in this state for a while.
You are thinking like a normal human being so no point that you argue with those bozos
Look up riot tryndamere boost
Riot is the new blizzard? Not even close. Every triple A developer has those kind of scandals. Blizzard/activision/Microsoft are in a tier of their own. They literally choose profit over EVERYTHING. If league was similar to them, they wouldn't even do massive patches without a pay wall behind it
Seek a psychatric because your mental health is rly not in a good state
Just showing you what people are willing to risk for something they desire. +

Phreak abusing his role as a developer to profit in League isn't out of the realm of possibilities.

We all know Phreak's ego is bigger than the Sun so he's exactly the type of person to actually risk it..
Source on the Maokai nerfs ? 

14.4 - Small nerfs barely worth mentioning

14.3 - Slight mana reg nerf, cd changes and mana cost changes, some abilities buffed another one nerfed, not really a champion nerf.

13.15 - single jungle stat nerf

13.4 ( ONE YEAR AGO ) Not relevant for todays balance.

Multiple nerfs ? Why do people make shit up on this sub so much ? The info is 1 google search away. Actually go read patch notes before making bullshit claims. And ffs don't call '' bro his mana cost on E was increased by 4 mana '' a nerf in this context because Maokai's problem's has nothing to do with cooldowns or mana costs which is the entirity of 14.3 'nerfs'
> It's the same career switching positions in a company is a very standard thing. /u/Fearjc 

Sure. If you go from a job with a specific skillset to another within the 'family\ of that skillset. 

Internal riot dev &  e-sports caster  ...... nope.   A welder can get hired by a porn company for XYZ but that doesn't mean welder & male porn star are somehow interchangeable skillsets. You preak shills just get more & more desperate it seems.  Supposedly he was a 'shoutcaster' but people that were around back then know he was an internal dev that worked with the balance & design teams in addition to being a special liaison between departments & unofficial PR guy ('man of the people').
> he has been Challenger for many years  /u/MyFatherIsNotHere 

I was challenger once back in the day, but I'm not challenger now so it means nothing because the game is not the same as it was in "season 4-5". Worth noting that ritoers were caught many, MANY times artificially boosting themselves, especially in S3-S5.

Part of the reason they nuked the old official forums was because rito members kept getting exposed as wildly corrupt or incredibly incompetent. I was there. You are lying and lying poorly.

...

* **EDIT**:

 For instance, I was hit with a zero-to-permaban punishment in S4 or S5, second one they ever did, because a ritoer personally disliked me and decided to violate official disciplinary protocol (Chat restriction--> 3 day suspension --> 2 week suspension --> permaban). The punishment was later rescinded when I went to the official forums and laid it all out for everyone to see. Of course they deleted my thread at first but I kept coming back because I was right.

I was the most reported player on NA server, by a factor of about x8 compared to the #2 most reported (Riot Jozreal told me this directly). I am annoying, in nearly every match even, however I do not violate the rules so I'd pass disciplinary review without punishment till someone nuked my account without cause. This kind of thing wasn't even rare and it's probably more common now that the forums are gone. Your argument fails on a bunch of levels and you are a complete pile for trying to roll with such BS.
I would disagree that it's the problem with his job. Riot August also interacts with the community in depth, and yet he doesn't get the same levels of heat simply because he's far less condescending, and is perfectly willing to admit mistakes. I do think phreak gets more hate than he deserves, but I'd be lying if I said he doesn't conduct himself poorly.
[deleted]
A lot of it is because the most notable people in the community/online personas for the game are just inherently wrong and spewing false information. I have watched people like IWillDominate literally pull up lolalytics and misinterpret the data to justify whatever claim he has.
I know of no game developer who's as controversial as phreak.

Phreak is a fucking douchebag whose whole persona is '' I'm the smartest so your arguments are automatically invalid ''
does his job poorly* and does useless rundowns where he just boasts about how much smarter he is than the players. stop dickriding you freak
League ms balanced? Adc has completely lost their identity as a role, baus and reckle both agreed it’s weakest role atm that gets one shot by everything. 

When you get to mid late game when your supposed to carry every other role does the same damage so your just turned into a bag of gold.

They also said supp needs nerfs, they have way too much control of how the lane and how the game will go with their agency, and ability to finish cores with no gold with such high efficiency, so supps need nerfs and adc needs buffs, aswell as a jungle buff and everything will be right in the world imo.
isn't 55% wr broken?
Because he alone makes every balance decision?
This true I forgot about the messiahs holy rants Inshallam 🙏🙏🙏🙏🙏
which is fine if riot wasnt abusing it themselves
Maokai is the safest tank pick atm, which is a lot to have going for you in pros.
They’ve known, Phreak said so in The Dive podcast last week or the week  before. But they don’t want to murder him in all his roles plus Trailblazer also got a nerf too.
I would ammend that:

You either climb with "what's good now" or you learn an OTP and ~2 "backing champions" so well that you can climb with your OTP even after nerf. 

If you can't do either of 2 - learn more, learn better. Maybe try different champ. Maybe your OTP champ is not what you have tried for year or 2.
Personally I don't abuse broken champ because it feels like cheating.
I'm not saying I have to win with a 40%wr champ, but surely if I climb playing someone at 54% maybe that's not entirely on me and my skills
Imagine if you could demolish her pre 6 and just delete her by just warding.

Yes she's annoying, but her vision radius is really big and she needs a good setup and items to do damage.

Other champions are far more broken than Eve. Have you ever seen blue kayn recently?
If they gut Maokai because he's too strong in support, Maokai's established top and jungle player bases won't be able to play him anymore because the balance team is balancing him to be a support, rather than a top laner or a jungler. Eve isn't being target nerfed for how good she is in one role while trying to balance her performance in her two "main" roles. It's easier to justify a sweeping, gutting change that only impacts a champion in the one role, jungle, than it is one who has 2 or 3 (or even 4, depending on how you feel about Maokai mid as a counterpick). Balancing a champion to be playable in multiple different roles, especially when one of those roles is support, is fucking hard, dude.
No, that’s generally not thought of as okay, which is why Draven’s healthy point is having about or below a 50 percent win rate.
Not across the board they don't. You might have been better than the maokai player, but overall maokai wins against every support in the game.
On reddit, you can count on astroturfing shills+jackass fanboys doing their thing if/when you talk about rito in any way that isn't worship.  Doesn't matter that you're right, only that you are not submitting to rito. 

Remember; '*rito works in mysterious ways*.'
But he’d be called out if he was actually abusing power that way lol. 

Phreak talked about Maokai in The Dive podcast and what they were trying to do. Essentially make Maokai’s WR between his 3 roles equal and then see where else to nerf if he was still too good.

Phreak also said that last season or two Maokai was OP, they knew he was but the play rate wasn’t there. Now it is. There are some champs that will always be kind of good no matter what. Janna for disengage, shields and heals and Maokai for easy engage. Especially his potentially team wide capturing R.
Not really he is supossed to play with the ploblematic shit to gather information and you don't want the balance team to just follow dats is they just look the data you get aram balance
And? You must have never worked to think he is the one taking decisions
just because they are na players balancing the game doesnt mean they are balancing around na competitive/soloq they have stats from all regions and likely have employees on the balance team from other regions too
You mean I can't play senna support and hope that my botlaner is going to pick an engage tank support instead of a marksman?
Janna is never maxing tornado until last. Higher damage at later ranks is almost NEVER happening in more than 5-10% of games lmao. The changes to her Q were LITERALLY geared towards using it for the CC, not to poke. Initial Q damage AND ratio were buffed, but the longer the Q channels does less damage now, they increased the CD, and didn't they also increase the mana cost? All of these signal that you shouldn't just be using it to poke. Rather, you should be using it optimally for the CC; be it to disengage or engage. All of the changes they made for Janna quite literally reward the more aggressive and skilled Janna players. They removed a bunch of the aspects in her kit AND changed which ability you max to remove her seasons old toxic kit of 'I just max E, place it on my carry, and then use everything to peel.'
Why do you think I’m blindly listening to what Phreak said? Based on the public data we have after the 13.22 changes Janna’s win rate went down about 3% then she got buffed in 13.23 and her win rate went back to the same as 13.21.

I just don’t see your reasoning that this is an example of him buffing one of his mains. She was objectively weaker (or at least she objectively won a fewer percentage of her games) in 13.22 and the power she got back in 13.23 just brought her back to 13.21 power level.
I don't think I'm indirectly saying that, I'm saying it directly. I think you're attributing to malice what can simply be attributed to incompetence.
There's also a big difference between playing casually and playing to climb. If a dev is for example having success on a champion and ranking up they will be less inclined to nerf it or even admit that it's broken. That's the inherit bias of playing competitively when you make the rules yourself.
You're right that there is some amount of conflict or interest. And they've admitted that often mini-reworks and bigger scope changes usually do start because a team member had an idea for a champ. And I'm sure it easier to have ideas for champs you play or care about. But league is a game where the benefits of being unethical are really low, he gets to brag about hitting master instead of being high diamond.  So imo the simpler answer of they've just failed at properly nerfing Maokai because of other constraints (jungle) or just being bad at their job, is just a much much more likely explanation.
5ms is fucking huge, lmao you clearly have 0 clue what you're talking about when it comes to balancing
On the opposite spectrum by playing op champions they can get a better idea of what is exactly strong about them and nail a more accurate nerf
If Phreak was a Maokai main this might make sense, but he isn’t. He plays what’s strong, like a lot of people.
What a massive denial, League's in it's biggest drought ever.

SR, recycled game modes and skins ?

Snap back to reality and look at other f2p games and the amount of content they get, and don't call skins content please.

League is ran by a skeleton crew and skin designers that's it. Sure we got Arena,, buggy mess of a mode for a single month and other than that League is recycled content, same form of shitty battle passes and decreased quality skins.

Last year we even got the laziest cinematics ever, they're using fucking AI for their content.
eh okay ? guess this sub has reachued r/league delusion levels because everything i said is literally factos.

They use AI for their cinematic content ffs ;)
"I was the most reported player by 8x more than the next person on the server, but actually it's the corrupt rioters' fault for not wanting me to continue ruining people's games at a rate *8x higher than the next person on the server*. What? I, the person reported at a rate EIGHT TIMES HIGHER than the next person on the server, might've been the problem, and the Rioters might've been right to ban me? Pssh, who ever heard of someone getting reported EIGHT TIMES MORE THAN THE NEXT MOST REPORTED PLAYER ON THE SERVER ever being a problem?!? Must've been those shitty, corrupt Rioters!"

Like, even if this story isn't something you fucking made up out of your ass, I frankly don't blame them for anything other than their response to your whinging about it loudly on public forums not meant for you to use for your bitching and moaning anyway. Should've just shut down your ability to post on the forums, tbh.
wtf, you really need a new hobby
I mean, I'm willing to bet august gets less hate because of what he's the messenger for.

People are always going to be tilted about balance and shoot the messenger, no matter what. There's always discrepancy in balance and what is or isn't broken.
Are you implying that August should be the lead? Because August is behind a lot of the most atrociously balanced champs and changes in league history. I think some of you interpret humbleness for being good at your job. Nah. Should Phreak be more humble? Absolutely. However, being humble but still being wrong/making mistakes doesn't make you better than someone who is arrogant and better at the job. In an ideal world, you'd blend the two, right? August personality with Phreak's league IQ. That isn't possible, though. I don't even know if a person like that even exists lmao


Edit: Exists in the league space, I mean
What’s wrong with karthus
...what? No game developer as controversial? There are way more problematic game developers out there, if you think Phreak is the worst you are absolutely delusional. He is not even close. Open your damn eyes, please. There are countless games out there, even triple a games, which fall and eventually lose all their playerbase because of dev decisions. If you think Phreak and Riot is some of the worst you are smoking some wacky shit. God some of you hate Phreak with a burning passion with little justifiable reason and I don't know how you live your lives like that
He literally admits when he is wrong about his balance changes. He did it with Asol and Maokai. Wtf are you on about? By 'boast' you mean when he tells players of certain champs that they are building wrong? That's just him using the data he has to give those players an advantage. He is basically saying 'X champ could potentially be super OP if more of the player base built them correctly.' You know why he gives that advice, right? Cause he wants to balance the game. If a good chunk of players are building a champ wrong, even if he knows a champ is busted when built correctly, he can't really nerf them without a huge amount of hate. As such, he tries to get as many people as possible to build correctly so he can more accurately assess if said champ is OP when built right or not. The more data, the more accurate the statistic. That's a pretty simple concept, no?
You talk about how everything needs to be solved yet provide no solution; they're easier said than done. You're talking as if Riot wants ADCs to get one shot, support overpowered as hell and jungle weak. They want the roles to be balanced, but have to think about iron to gold, diamond, challenger, and pro play. It's quite impossible, and the game has always been in different states with people complaining yet player base has not changed if not increased.
In a wide sample, perhaps. But at the end of the day, does it affect the individual playerbase? 55% wr at 100 games is 10 more wins than losses, 55% wr at 10 games is like between 5 win 5 loss and 6 win 4 loss. There are players out there playing a 47% wr ("unplayable") champion and manage to get >55% or even >60% wr. There are also players who play the infamous Maokai and manage a sub 50% wr. At the end of the day, for individual players it's the chance to win/lose on the champion and 55% is not that high if you think about it. If you don't want to talk Probability Theory; there was always an op champion in a patch, some just a single week, some lasting for months (though rare). As far as I'm concerned, I'd prefer Maokai support being OP than other certain champions. You are welcome to disagree, however.
He streams and he’s active on social media. He has his touch on the pulse of the community. He SHOULD know what we all think/want. 

Is he the only one on the team? Nah. But does he obviously have more stroke than the rest? Yes.
It's a scapegoat though? Check out why they reworked him in the first place, it will surprise you
But your framing is nonsense. No one is "abusing a broken champ" just by playing the champions in their roles with the highest win rate. That's like looking at the top cut of decks in a Magic: The Gathering tournament and deciding that all those decks are clearly broken and need to be banned out because all the "best" players piloted them to success, while ignoring the fact that plenty of people, including several in the top 16 & 32 were playing decks that aren't meta, but are made to work through the skill, knowledge, and collected experience of dedicated players. And yes, sometimes there are decks/champions who get overloaded in one area or another, and can become unfun/unfair to play against, and yes, those decks/champions absolutely should be looked at by a competitive balance team and decisions should be made based on the tools available to the deck/champ and what certain changes would do to other decks/champions in a meta. That's not synonymous with the act of being a meta option in a given game environment. The fact that OTPs can and do climb on every single champion the same way as people learning and relearning whatever champ has the highest winrate in a given 2 week patch cycle should be enough to prove that there's no real "abuse" or "brokenness", just people playing a game in a way you don't like because they value getting different things from that game than you do and have approached it from a different direction.
In this day and age? In what world do you live where snowflake muricans call abuse of power out lol
Mao was giga useless in the past, now he is giga strong. He isn't "good no matter what", right now he is clearly over-overtuned and he needs nerfs asap.

Also the reason why play rate matters when something is OP is clearly simple. If you don't play against the OP champ, how will you know its OP ? Thats first grade logic.
While that's true isnt PBE for testing like that? And why would he play said op thing in a ranked match anyways. They also probably have some sort of internal testing method that doesnt require them to play games on the live servers.
Hmmm yes. Funny how he is playing only the problematic stuff in ranked to climb
[removed]
[removed]
What are you trying to say then. Stop saying empty words like an idiot next time or read.
Nah. This is just proof you guys will never be happy. Before the logic was 'Phreak just nerfs anything that beats him.' Now the logic is 'Phreak just only plays OP stuff.' Lmaooo
Well it's not just about maokai, there is a trend of broken champions being nerfed way too late after they've already terrorized so many games. And it is very weird for the head of balance to seek out OP champs and abuse them in ranked. Also the benefits of being unethical are kind of subjective since of course everyone will place a different importance on their own rank. Furthermore phreak being bad at his job seems unlikely due to how much experience he has.
people underestimate the value of ms nerfs/buffs all the time. kass got nerfed a few years ago by like 10 at some point and people were saying it was nothing since he can ult every 3 seconds late game, but the 10 ms he lost meant he would miss out on extra minions, not be able to roam or escape ganks as easily early game and stuff lien that which delayed his lvl 16 spike by so much his winrate dropped by like 5%

something similar happened to caitlyn at some point too, she wasn't able to run enemies down as easily early game and would have a harder time snowballing which led to lower winrate.

mouvement speed and attack range are usually used to get big winrate swings while not changing how the champ feels
clearly that isn't the case given maokais sustained WR & failure of nerfs

also, rioters have a history of thinking the game is fine if they're having fun

i think if your interest is balance you wouldn't play overtuned champs as frequently as you played undertuned ones
Nothing is stopping him from playing the OP champs he likes the most and taking longer to nerf them.

Why is TF getting hot fixed? Why doesn’t Phreak play him if he’s busted right now? Oh because the balance team doesn’t like playing TF, so they can find the time to nerf him live.

It’s not that big of a conspiracy to think there’s a bit of rigging for champs rioters like to play.
Nothing wrong about using AI ;))))))

Funny enough that you talk about delusion when you are literally heavy on the mental side lmao
> the person reported at a rate EIGHT TIMES HIGHER than the next person on the server, might've been the problem, and the Rioters might've been right to ban me? /u/

Cute. Turns out being reported & those reports being legitimate are two different things. Even if they weren't, riot had been touting their disciplinary system particularly hard around that era which again, has escalating punishments and NOT zero-to-permaban hits. The fact that the permaban was rescinded is proof that I am correct and you are not.

>even if this story isn't something you fucking made up out of your ass

It isn't but I don't care what you believe, it makes no difference to me. 

> I frankly don't blame them for anything other than their response to your whinging about it loudly on public forums not meant for you to use for your bitching and moaning anyway.

Lol? there was a section on the official forums specifically for  people that had issues with riot's disciplinary system.  I used it, in the most literal sense, exactly the way it was intended to be used.  I thought you might be a rito shill at first but now I see you are not. You're just spazzing out for no reason it seems.... do your thing.

You can have the last word, little one.
Why would you reply without a single decent example of one then ?

oh you dont have one.
Has a role ever lost its identity to the point adc has? I’d like you to give an example, the solution I said which has been parroted by players better than you or me have said supp nerfs together with adc buffs is the answer
Yeah. I mean Phreak stated before when they buffed the defensive items of ADCs that the ADCs who itemized correctly were legit playing a busted role. The issue is most weren't building correctly. Then you saw pros being raid boss ADCs when they built correctly + had an enchanter of some kind with them, forcing Riot to nerf them. Even though ADC outside of high ranks and pro was an underwhelming role
He interacts with the community, one of them being the Patch Rundown. The main point of the rundown is to tell the players the reasoning and the thought process of each balance decision. Oh yes, he knows what we think/want. There is a LOT the league community wants, and fulfilling all of them is impossible even if all of them were correct (is not). Does he have more stroke than the rest? Who knows? Has a rioter explicity stated Phreak makes the call? Anyone here have solid proof of the hierarchy of LoL's balance team? Does anyone know what their process of making decisions is? Let's not make assumptions, especially those that cause toxicity.
Theres plenty of things that might be deemed OP but few people play it so it’s not seen. We see tons of weird things suddenly get realized and then everyone starts playing it. Even if there haven’t been buffs to the champion
Maokai was always simple and broken, reason for his rework was that actually.

Then with season 11 he was turbo broken and never got deserved nerfs
1. No the PBE is for bug testing not balancing

2. Playing it in the most competitive environment possible helps identify problem points

3. Testing on Live means more players playing which means higher skill level

4. Don't you guys *want* the balance team to play the game? This is undeniable proof the head of balance is playing and testing OP stuff in the same environment as the rest of you. This is an objectively good thing.
I just don’t think your argument holds tho. Unless I’m understanding you. You’re saying 13.22 wasn’t  a nerf to Janna so she didn’t need 13.23 buffs. But if that’s true why was her win rate in 13.23 and post patches not higher than it was in 13.21?
Sure if it wasn't clear what I meant. Thinking Phreak is acting unethically for personal gain when incompetence is much more likely is idiotic.
Yes because they are psychotic bozos

Now imagine they would listen to those bozos… the game wouldn‘t even exist anymore
2 ad buff/nerf made some ADC's go from 47% wr to 55% and vice versa. (I believe Xayah and Caitlyn are the big ones from a 2 ad buff/nerf) small numbers matter more than most people think.
That makes no sense. If they cared about balance, why would they play the underpowered ones?
The issue is that there's an easier leap that isn't conspiracy.

They figured out what makes TF OP and realized there was no value for the game in TF ADC so they nerfed it out of the game.

Theyre trying to establish value in Maokai support and parity with Maokai jungle. If they can then both roles stay, if they can't then one will be nerfed out of the game. But they need to understand what matters for Maokai jungle and what matters for Maokai support.

They could be wrong about this being possible, they were wrong about it for Seraphine. But them taking time to establish the value of the playstyles and balancing them isn't a bad thing.
I automatically assume you're 13 years old max with that AI statement.

You must be a top tier crayon sniffer to think devs using ai to pump out garbage content is fine. Keep being milked by greedy corpo's, definition of idiocracy.
>Cute. Turns out being reported & those reports being legitimate are two different things. 

Go ahead and make up some absolutely insane conspiracy that explains how your being reported at a rate, again, eight times higher than the next person on the server were all for illegitimate reasons. That's definitely not just fucking useless cope from the person reported at a rate, AGAIN, EIGHT TIMES HIGHER THAN THE NEXT MOST REPORTED PERSON ON THE SERVER.

>Even if they weren't, riot had been touting their disciplinary system particularly hard around that era which again, has escalating punishments and NOT zero-to-permaban hits.

Again, if you're being reported at a rate EIGHT TIMES MORE THAN THE NEXT MOST REPORTED PERSON ON THE SERVER, that's not a problem of "zero-to-permaban hits", that's the automated system adequately responding to the volume of reports against you.

>The fact that the permaban was rescinded is proof that I am correct and you are not.

The fact that you whined loud enough they reversed your ban isn't proof of shit. How quickly was the account permabanned again?

>It isn't but I don't care what you believe, it makes no difference to me.

Clearly you do, given you came back to respond more than a week later lmfao.

>Lol? there was a section on the official forums specifically for  people that had issues with riot's disciplinary system. I used it, in the most literal sense, exactly the way it was intended to be used.

Cool, so for people who were wrongly flagged by the system, rather than people correctly flagged by the system because their account was reported EIGHT TIMES MORE THAN THE NEXT ACCOUNT ON THE SERVER? Great. Glad we solved that problem. Of course, that never stopped actually toxic players like the ones getting reported EIGHT TIMES MORE THAN THE NEXT MOST REPORTED ACCOUNT ON THE SERVER from using it to yell at the air.

>You can have the last word, little one.

When you have zero self control and reopened a week+ old comment thread to whine and bitch more, but still want to pretend you have literally any moral or intellectual high ground to claim.
Overwatch? That's the most popular one that is fucked up by poor management decisions. I wouldn't mind having a discussion through dms about your hatred of Phreak.
GhostCrawler? Did we just forget that guy? Lmao
The people saying that are also the same people who want the support role to just be engage champs. They played predominantly in an era where engage support was all there was. If you nerf support while buffing ADC, you will be right back to tank support meta. If you want to offset that by buffing enchanters, then guess what? You get league of 'who has the better enchanter?' meta again. A meta NOBODY enjoys lol
ADC's has always been gated by pro play. If you don't remember old LoL, jg and support were walking sightstones with very little gold income and therefore were extremely unpopular, support especially hence why they were usually relegated to the 5th pick. One way jg gained popularity was to give them carry potential, an example being Feral Flare. Granted, it was unhealthy for the game but it proved popularity directly correlated with carry potential - no surprise. It's why ADC's still have the playerbase they have now, they still are the best carry (rarely outscaled by other) late game, and that feeling you can't really get playing other roles. It's perfectly fair to feel ADCs are weak right now in solo queue because of its fragile nature. However, the problem with this is if you buff ADCs and nerf support impact, it may have multiple consequeces. Marksmen might migrate to solo lanes, solo lanes might start going enchanter or support playstyles, or the most obvious: support popularity goes down. The question for Riot is this: Do you want support to lose popularity and therefore lead to more autofills (and frustrated adcs) / longer queue times or have an unhappy adc playerbase? Riot seems to prefer the latter. Whatever the choice is, it's free for you to criticize but you have to understand they have their reasons for their decisions and most importantly, it is unfair to pinpoint all the blame to Phreak.
Yes exactly but that doesn't disprove my point.

Maybe I should phrase it more correctly and say "Mao being overtuned is causing a big balance problem now that his pickrate has spiked"
He was never "always" a broken champ.

I remember some time ago, maybe 1-2 even 3 years ago, picking him in top was considered trolling. It was like you picked soraka top and went tank. Picking him in support was also extremely bad. He was d tier. Jungle ? I think he was a solid b tier or smth in jg but can't recall precisely.

The point is though, that there was a time where he was very weak and not seen at all.
[removed]
[removed]
Don't waste your time with the unhinged people. They were clearly abused as children
I automatically assume you are a mouth breather if you cry about AI

Nobody cares if it‘s made by AI when it still looks fine

But ofc mouth breather like you care because you know you are worthless
Overwatch is a game not a singular dev
Current supp meta is already engage tho, highest wr% is mao, taric, zac, poppy, blitz..

Pyke Braum Leo also have a 51% wr only enchanters with good wr is Janna and sona..
I’m not blaming phreak entirely, although they did remove the navori buff. but no even in pro play adcs are meh, main carry is top jg in current pro play, of course adc is in a better place in gm+ but 99.9% of players are not there. 

And yes exactly roles used to have specific jobs/identity and adc was main damage. League is not like old league anymore, every role has damage. Which leaves adc with not much.. unless you play off role picks such as seraphine or senna because atleast u have util for team now.  And I honestly disagree with you saying adcs have carry potential, no matter how fed an adc is they are still one shot able and most other roles can get on top of them extremely easily with the amount of mobility kits there are in the game. Of course adc isn’t unplayable and it’s definitely still a fun role but it is considered the weakest atm at least from what I’ve seen from every single content creator/ ex pro/high mmr player I’ve seen talk about it.

Also defensive items suck dick on adc and also ruin dmg output, like maw is nothing special and GA is a deadass scam compared to zhonyas, look at crit adc wr too btw.
Also for me atleast I would rather have lower impact supports even if it means they are auto filled, adc lanes are completely decided by the support 90% of the time unless there is a massive skill gap between the two adcs, of course I’m only but a small fry emerald player so my opinion is of course only mine, so I’m just basing it off what I’ve heard from better players. I feel like crit needs buffs and support needs nerfs, they get gold far too easily and their items are cheap. 

The only main issue for balancing of course is adcs going mid/top as that’s horrible for the game and you hate to see it, of course it does go both ways with mages being played in the adc role and support role as well.

What was phreaks excuse for that again? Armor runes we’re the issue? As soon as they were removed winnrates did not change
Okay so yeah you agree with what phreak said then. It sounded like you were trying to contest it
It’s not so much the win rate drop but the lack of win rate increase. 

Your argument is that Phreak mains Janna and buffed her in 13.23 when she didn’t need a buff because he’s biased.
But nothing you’ve shown shows that 13.23+ Janna is any stronger than 13.21 Janna. I agree he buffed her from 13.22, but he could’ve just left her as she was in 13.21 which from all the data we have is just as strong as 13.23+. 

On the 53% win rate, do you think no champions should be that far from 50 regardless of how hard they are too master? IMO the game is much more enjoyable where some champs are easy to master  (and have inflated win rates) and others are complicated (and have deflated win rates) .
>Someone is a phreak stan

I've also been called a Phreak hater. I think he misuses stats to back up a conclusion he already arrived at instead of using stats to arrive to a conclusion. And I think he's a huge contrarian. I think saying he's abusing his power in the balance team so he can get more LP is nonsense.

>Why is it unethical and not just irresponsible? 

Would abusing his power in the balance team so he can climb higher not be considered unethical? 

> Why do you use words that don't fit what you say? Would you say that your reading comprehension is as bad as your use of English?

 I mean English isn't my first language and I did think malice fit the original sentence as in Phreak unethically abusing his power is malicious, but I can see how that wasn't clear to you so I adjusted it. I think my meaning was pretty clear but if you want to be a pedant (or honestly didn't understand what I meant) I have no issues correcting it.
Keep being delusional and talking out of your ass kid.

'' nobody cares''

[https://www.reddit.com/r/leagueoflegends/comments/160rcfm/riot\_just\_used\_ai\_for\_their\_celebration\_video\_of/](https://www.reddit.com/r/leagueoflegends/comments/160rcfm/riot_just_used_ai_for_their_celebration_video_of/)

AI for content creation is a highly controversial topic on the internet and reddit, youtube, twitter go up in flames when companies are caught using AI.

Firstly because it's obvious and horribly bad, secondly because it's already costing hundreds of thousands of jobs worldwide.

If you've done any kind of education outside of your kindergarten or even mature enough to have worked a single job in your life you'd surely be educated enough about why displacing workers ( and erroding job quality aswell ) causes issues.

Soon you'll be on here crying you lost your mcdonalds job because an ai took over, let's see your smartass crayon sniffing attitude then.

  
And keep talking about bad mental when you spend your life watching people dying on nsfl, ironic how delusional you are.
What the hell are you talking about, LoL is not a singular dev either? Phreak does not make every balance decision by himself, if you think that way you clearly don't understand how the real life works
My point was that Mao needed nerfs for a long time now since people started to pick him up and Riot's response was pretty slow.
[removed]
[removed]
Yes nobody besides worthless Redditors cares
'' I know of no game developer who's as controversial as phreak. ''

What are you on about ? Need some help learning to read ?
I done did a thing
After 12 years I've been finally working towards improving 
Congrats! Gold next.
I have been promoting and demoting between Bronze and Silver the past weeks 😅
As long as you stop at platinum and dont touch emerald your sanity will remain somewhat pure
SILVER WOHOO!! THATS THE WAY BRO!! NOW 12 MORE YEARS FOR GOLD BROTHER!!

Im rooting for you. Its a Small improvement but one nonetheless!
Why don't you make your lvl 7 champ
Playing well, already at least 5 s game performances between 20k and 40 k mastery
Congrats!!! U got this
gg gold next my guy
life begins now
Gratz now play random characters in all lanes to dhow them what your made out of
Awesome!!!
Holy shit! The man's is doing it!!!!
Gratz on reaching Emerald 1's sister elo.
I reached gold and I'm proud!
welcome to elo hell
Congrats! I am 2 splits into gold as a Skarner OTP and im.starting to suck ass at the game hoping the rework makes him viable and as fun as he is now!
Congrats! Feels good to hit a new tier! Keep it going!
I'm hard stuck (old) plat , emerald for the past 4 years 😭😭😭
honestly the silver thing looks way nicer than any others below masters
congrats
Congrats !
Good job
Gratz from emerald (somehow)!
congratulations man
great, keep it up
Congrats, hope your journey will continue toward higher leagues !
Awesome, congrats
Congrats! The climb to gold is tough, but absolutely attainable. Just apply good fundamentals. Check out virkayu on YouTube (I think it's spelled). Just keep learning and applying good jungle techniques and pathing and you'll get there!
Congrats! Love to see the progress. What do you think is the main thing you changed about your gameplay or your improvement process to climb out of bronze?
Grats man.
Why did you word it like you never even tried winning? lmao good job btw
congrats! S3 next?
go shower
how much playtime is 276 lvls? Does getting levels keep getting harder too? I'm only asking since i've never gotten to a hundred. My playtime is split across like three accounts all like lvl 60 probably.
Hey! Congrats! Who are you maining so far?
I got in a lose streak so bad i went from bronze 3 to iron 3 😀
Nice, how did you do it? You started peeling for adc instead of trying to solo carry? Because from my experience thats how many ranked up, anyway keep it up and good luck on your future games
Gz
Just stop here ranked dosent get any better. Bronze and silver are unironically the most fun ranks
I prefer not to speak, if I speak I’m in big trouble… big trouble
Always weird to see people like this. I placed silver 2 in season 1 and havent been anywhere near that in a decade.
12 years?!?! My man move onto something else in life
[deleted]
Who's gonna tell 'em?
Enjoy before losers queue and and you lose the will to live when you go back down.
What did you do? 🤔
No one tell him
Yep finally stopped coin flipping most of my scenarios, taking it slower and backing more often. Really has made snowballing easier
One must imagine sisyphus happy
Me too I have been silver 1 and then bronze 4 and back again, this has been my ranked the last half year...
I feel you dawg
I found I do that when I play long periods I made another account just to play when I start losing and that has really helped me climb
Currently fighting tooth and nail to get out of iron
Emerald is not elo hell. Its just hell.
I'm plat 1 atm and already lost my sanity.
I'd be very happy if I could make it to gold this season
Lmao thanks finally started playing to improve in ranked instead of just queuing because I wanted to play
I always get roasted for not having level 7 on my mains lol but why would you spend blue essence on a cosmetic rather than buying champs? I always find people who flash their mastery super lame anyway
Yes, sir! Shyvana has been good to me this season
Thank you 😀
Yep that's the goal to at least hit gold this season
Probably the lack of time I've had to actually play really helps me not rage queue
I was trying but I also didn't take breaks or watch my games and learn from mistakes
Thats how it goes
I level up like every 3 games I feel like, prime gaming gives you an xp boost
Lilia and shyvana
You always got to adapt its not just a hey I do this one thing, I have been playing alot of shyvana, some games I snowball, and the other ones I could be having a bad game and I end up distracting the enemy and wasting their time so my team can be doing other things. If your adc is doing great it may be better to build a tank and peel for them
Couldn’t let someone just enjoy an achievement could you? I can’t imagine being this pathetic. Your life must be miserable.
Nah fuck that. It's a game and as long as he's having fun who gives a shit.
12 years of playing for fun and not really trying to climb
What do you accomplish by saying this? Does it make you feel better about your fake rank in a video game. Let people enjoy things.
A thing
I started taking less risky plays honestly and made it easier to snowball
stfu ego loser buzzkill let him be proud of his achievement
fuck off
If u need help i can check one of ur vods. Im only diamond so nothing special but i should be able to give u valuable feedback.
Dude I know
Well im G1 and in my normals I always get ppl like emerald 2/3 up to dia 2.
I never, and when I say never I mean NEVER! had so inconsistent games in my rankeds like playing with these people.. it feels like emerald player are little apes pressing randomly buttons and then flame the jngl not ganking the 0/8 toplane hahahah unbelievable..
Yeah I’m steadily climbing but holy cow it is the most inconsistent rank I’ve seen yet. And EVERYONE types so much. Like stfu and play the game. Then there’s so many new accounts. Some Smurfs, some gold players that bought an account, some emerald players that were banned on the previous account. It’s such a dumpster fire of a climb.
I assume that after playing for 12 years he would have all champions
Yeah I totally relate to this, especially when they have things like the essence Emporium now that let you buy actual skins etc. Mastery flashing is lame except if you're level 4 and honestly people don't really do it these days anyway
Because I have all the champs and have shitton of BE. Flashing my badge also almost always triggers the enemy so much which might backfire if I’m not doing too hot, but also makes for an easy blow to their mental lol
Oh man I totally relate to this. I used to suffer from the classic "end on a win" syndrome myself lol. I only play 3 ranked games at time these days and it makes a huge difference in the intensity and energy you bring to a game.
I dont think the first part is true. I'd say its 5 matches for a level up looking at how much of the bar is highlighter. Considering how easy level upping is at the start i'd wager you've played like 500 hours of league. Very nice. What characters do you play
No way, shyvana player in 2024, very rare creature found
actually its pretty good when you dont suck shit at everything
Lmaooo yeah man 👨
Fake achievement created by riot games so that he get a hit of dopamine and buy a new skin on the champ that made him climb to « silver ». 

Riot are so smart tbh with all the posts like this I see their strategy works good
hehe achievement ok ok
Yeah sure I'll have to get some downloaded I've went to a 82% wr lately with shyvana the games I lost are just some dumb mistakes I've made and my teammates end up feeding and surrendering
Nah bro. Get in a full emerald lobby. You may touched some of the flames but full emerald lobby is like the 7th circle 's deepest pit of hell. Emerald players are like my cat. She stands in front of her empty feeding bowl, i put some food in it, she looks at me without touching the food then goes outside. 2 minutes later she wants to get back in. She doesn't know what she wants and she damn sure doesn't know how to get it.
Playing vs people in norms isn’t the same as playing vs people tryharding in ranked

I was gm last split, didn’t mean I played at a gm level and sweat my ass off in a normal game with silvers lol. Sometimes I’d lose because I’m playing random shit or just 4funning, doesn’t mean those people are magically gm level
Lol all the Champs just kinda forget to mastery them up been on a 10 game Windstream for ranked with shyv
Pretty stupid of you to assume is on the same account. I have been playing for 10 years and am on my 15th account or so. Not uncommon for people to get perma banned
That and game fatigue if I knew like hey I got 4 hours before work that means I can get 4 games in this week don't take a break after a game the next game you see more mistakes and you go well I wouldnt get another game in if I take a break
I just looked at my playtime. I've played 3 days 4 hours this season alone, played Lilia in the beginning of the season, moved to support, and found it easier to climb, but I was feeling I was relying alot on my team to be at the right place at the right time, so I went back to jungle, shyvana got buffed and so I play her now, for a bit with a 82% wr this season
She did get buffed
Like being good at league is an indicator of being successful in ways that matter. Hit that copium a bit harder brother.
I think you would understand this with your pokemon card habit and all that. Have a good evening 😁. Those Internet thots wont chase themselves.
Stop and read what you wrote.  What a sad mentality.  Dude set a goal for himself and reached it.  He's happy.

Meanwhile you're on reddit being a dick.
Agreed. I'll never understand people like OP wanting to share such a non achievement to internet strangers.  It screams Lonely.
Pm me when u want me to check it
Not all people have major aggression problems lol.
I also played for 13 years and still have my first account
I have been playing on the same account since season 2. you just seem like an absolute insufferable person to play with. Good job to riot for banning you so often.
Im playing since season 2 and have my one account. Please calm down when playing league. Or you know what? Calm down in general.
Such a sad take lmao
That’s… really uncommon. Amongst my friend group if like 10-12 who play, ONE of them is on his second account, which we though was pretty crazy. That said, user name checks out.
I’m on my only account and played over 10 years lmao. Ik the banning is pretty nuts these days but not everyone is that toxic lol
People being perma banned is rare. The vast majority of perma bans are repeat offenders, such as yourself.
I have been playing League for 12 years, and I have never known anyone who got permabanned.
you missed the last word there i see
What the fuck does that even mean where did internet thots come from
The thing is he didn’t reach it lmao ? If he thinks he finally got to silver good for him but he is at the same elo he has been stuck for 12 years and that’s the truth but casual gamer wont accept it I guess.
Well obviously not all people get perma bans but him not having level 7 is a pretty clear indicator that this is not an account that has all champs unlocked you moron
Looks like you forgot to switch to your coomer account before visiting r/camsluts my guy.
I’m starting to see why you get permabanned
Damn, would you believe this guy got permabanned so many times? He seems so well-behaved
Honey, you don't see the signs. You need change, badly
go to a therapist
I have all the Champs have for a while I have one other account that I play if I am gonna play for more than 4 hours as I noticed i get fatigue and make more mistakes
People who get banned multiple times are the moat desperate laughable creatures in league. Like, you really waste your time to annoy strangers and act like a big guy hidimg behind your keyboard because your life is so miserable? Feel
Kinda sorry for you losers.
I know plenty of people who keep mastery 5 or 6 on purpose. Some people prefer the look, some don’t care. Hell, Tobias fate had like 10 million on gangplank on his old account and let it at mastery 5 for years
Mundo cosplay irl
Here's a sneak peek of /r/CamSluts **[NSFW]** using the [top posts](https://np.reddit.com/r/CamSluts/top/?sort=top&t=year) of the year!

\#1: [ive made over 100 men cheat on their wives...](https://i.redd.it/ngypwwtqyj7b1.gif) | [46 comments](https://np.reddit.com/r/CamSluts/comments/14g0sjd/ive_made_over_100_men_cheat_on_their_wives/)  
\#2: [lubed up and ready for any redditor who is brave enough to take this slide](https://i.redd.it/9fb0rxot0e3b1.gif) | [18 comments](https://np.reddit.com/r/CamSluts/comments/13xeibh/lubed_up_and_ready_for_any_redditor_who_is_brave/)  
\#3: [I could use a hand](https://i.redd.it/ydsowh6ls61c1.jpg) | [46 comments](https://np.reddit.com/r/CamSluts/comments/17yijea/i_could_use_a_hand/)

----
^^I'm ^^a ^^bot, ^^beep ^^boop ^^| ^^Downvote ^^to ^^remove ^^| ^^[Contact](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose/?to=sneakpeekbot) ^^| ^^[Info](https://np.reddit.com/r/sneakpeekbot/) ^^| ^^[Opt-out](https://np.reddit.com/r/sneakpeekbot/comments/o8wk1r/blacklist_ix/) ^^| ^^[GitHub](https://github.com/ghnr/sneakpeekbot)
Ayyooo
No I didn’t forget
I mean yeah if my teammate is feeding im obviously going to flame them. New accounts are pretty cheap anyway so not like its a big deal getting banned. Seems like you had a pretty visceral reaction to my comment lol perhaps you are often feeding and getting flamed
Perhaps you’re 12 and haven’t grown up yet
Is anyone else feeling a weird sexual tension towards the enemy jungler?..
Just think about it. You're both sitting down at your gaming desk in your respective homes, but in spirit, you're both connected. You're both looking at the map the whole game, thinking about what the other might do next. ''Is he thinking about me?" you wonder as you clear your blue buff, hoping not to get invaded. "Where is he, right now? What is he doing? What is he thinking about?" Your hands tremble at the mere thought of being face to face with him, just a careless meeting by the river or jungle trees. 
Already enough Internet for today...
r/queensofleague core
Bold of you to assume I look at the map
That's it. Am going to cut my internet cable. Good bye.
Yes, I have felt this a lot.  Some games the enemy jungler is just a limp, low-pressure bag of flesh that is farmable for gold.  sometimes, they are an absolute tidal wave that crashes onto the rift and dictates every part of the game.  In those kinds of games, the enemy jungler is too far away from me to comprehend.

However, there are games where we are cat & mouse, the trans flag poro icon haver and the lonely trad chaser, the ganker and the ganked.  The both of us switches and verses, taking turns with each others vision, objectives, and teammates.  When I track them, knowing that they could be anywhere... that when I walk into that bush, they could be immediately be in my bussy... it's an exhilarating feeling.  

We speak in the language of decision making and combat efficacy, in pathing and patience... I hope my words reach them.  I hope they can see me for who I am.  I hope that out of the 9 other players on the rift, they are the ones that **get** me.  I hope I see them again one day.  I hope they remember the orgasm I gave them (or at least tried to).  I hope these things build new neural pathways so that the next time they see me, they will know that ecstasy is waiting for them in the enemy jungle.
Did someone get ahold of my fiancé’s spicy books?
r/darkinfolk guys someone escaped from the basement
We need r/okbuddyjungle it seems
Absolutely beautiful
The sexual tension between me and my shotgun just grew 10 fold
"Invading" his "jungle" and "checking" his "bushes"
I gotta stop reading this sub at 3 am
Yes, I feel it too! Sometimes I can't even tell which one of us is fucking the other!
Shaco full clear while gooning tutorial 3:45 (FREE ELO)
OP, i will hang myself with my monitor cable then reincarnate into a snake and slither through the internet cables, then come o

out of your router and chomp your windpipe with my fangs
Enemy jungler is like a cheating spouse.

Fucking everyone when I'm not there
Breeding is daily
Who doesnt really
I know where he is. He doesn’t know where I am. We are not the same
They sure do fuck me hard enough to assume so.
 Peak
I haven’t unlocked the map DLC yet.
wttff
Wtf did I just stumble on
I only feel a sexual tension if it’s evelynn my beloved mommy
I wish! That sounds like a great time!
Lmao wth
erm
r/DarkinFolk called, they want their degeneracy back
I fuck the opposite jungler on the ass. The sexual tension is only natural.
Sure but I’m the other jungler. “Where is he?” I wonder as I clear my red buff, plotting to invade. “Where is he, right now?” My hands tremble at the mere thought of being face to face with him, drawing fresh blood by the river or jungle trees.
Facts
Sexual tension? Not really 

On sight violence the second they are on my screen? Absolutely
This Community is Crazy 🥰😭
bro is freaky in the jungle 💀
Yeah. We usually end up doing an enemy’s to lovers thing by the end of the match and date for 3 months
OMG this is legit......
um 😨
okayy..... somebody PLEASE get this guy laid, this is unbearable (there is a weird sexual tension between me and the enemy jungler because he cant stop fucking me while my jungler watches)
You think I can hold it for that long? I'm a crit Shaco main, I invade them and I oneshot them from behind then run away - just like in real life.

Except that one time I brought clone, then we spitroasted the enemy Jungler, who must have enjoyed it, because when we made thst Zac squirt into 4 different parts.
***^(i touch myself to the thought of meeting them by the river...)***
I see it like 3D chess, but whatever gets ya off Ig
so fucking real
I religiously at the start of every game THE SECOND we hit fountain I go, "Prepare to be kissed on the mouth you gorgeous beast (insert the jgs name) talking to you toots". I've gotten a lot of adds, surprisingly enough majority of them actually being friendly.
No
I graduated off that feeling. You must be new, welcome to the jungle! Now, I say to myself, “Who wanna fuck around and find out?” We roll deep.
[I AM YOU](https://imgur.com/a/3CWMqEm)
Only if the enemy jungler is female irl. So practically never.
HAHA SAME
Almost, just add some more hot/furry men and possibly a mention or two of some enchanter girl and THEN it would fit that sub perfectly. Maybe you or OP should try, the homos love that stuff 💅
Bold of you asume i think to play
Bold of you to assume I'm thinking while I play.
PCs got wlan
Oh my god I’m so close don’t stop there
Nah this might be more r/queensofleague
Careful. He might be into that.
Bestie don't say that it's pride month 😭
"furry men"  
You mean Warwick? Wukong?
Mention Evelynn and Belvussy and it’s r/darkinfolk
Here's a sneak peek of /r/queensofleague using the [top posts](https://np.reddit.com/r/queensofleague/top/?sort=top&t=year) of the year!

\#1: [It's canon, my gay trans uncle works at Riot.](https://i.redd.it/1v97akr4vs0c1.png) | [47 comments](https://np.reddit.com/r/queensofleague/comments/17x1pze/its_canon_my_gay_trans_uncle_works_at_riot/)  
\#2: [Show us your main league champion and then a picture of you: Where my fellow SeraSISTERS at? 💅🎤🦋](https://i.redd.it/ei0osx60u6ta1.jpg) | [314 comments](https://np.reddit.com/r/queensofleague/comments/12i1k6d/show_us_your_main_league_champion_and_then_a/)  
\#3: [So... This happened. Happy Pride!](https://v.redd.it/4gn01iixrn4b1) | [27 comments](https://np.reddit.com/r/queensofleague/comments/143oswu/so_this_happened_happy_pride/)

----
^^I'm ^^a ^^bot, ^^beep ^^boop ^^| ^^Downvote ^^to ^^remove ^^| ^^[Contact](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose/?to=sneakpeekbot) ^^| ^^[Info](https://np.reddit.com/r/sneakpeekbot/) ^^| ^^[Opt-out](https://np.reddit.com/r/sneakpeekbot/comments/o8wk1r/blacklist_ix/) ^^| ^^[GitHub](https://github.com/ghnr/sneakpeekbot)
Gragas
I mean volibear
Speak about women it’s r/Darkinfolk speak about men it’s r/Queensofleague
Gragussy
30 days ban
Guys, in your honest opinion, is this worth 30 day chat restriction? 
Couldn't post it on lol subreddit, since they just remove any proof of riot's fucked up system. 

Can you show "Post Game:" too, I know Riot's system is retarded but I can't believe you got banned just for this.
chat = ban 

just turn chat off man its common knowledge
I got banned for apologizing to my top laner because i “fucked up” 

Apparently the f word is too much 🤪🤪🤪
yeah  it was obviously deserved you said the k word
I once slipped on my keyboard and wrote "kike" instead of "like" while chatting. 48h chat restriction and learned a word in Hebrew xD
Player literally runs mid and dies 10 times before 10 minutes. Riot: Sleeps.

Player types useful information in chat. Riot: HOW DARE YOU?

Honestly, Riot system is so dumb.
Better to turn off the chat mate
Just turn off chat completely… I received bans on a regular basis despite not really being toxic but instead being just a typical British swearer. I’ve been reformed for about 2 years now and it’s only because I turned off chat completely. 

Before turning off chat I would get a ban every week or so just because of swearing. Not even insulting people or targeted attacks. Just simply typing wtf or fuck or shit. Would get me restricted or banned. 

Despite me typing calls and plays all game one swear word could get you flagged. Since the swear word got flagged the rest of the chat is considered “spam” or toxic over typing… system is honestly just cringe. Why did they even implement chat if we’re not allowed to use it?

Edit; don’t even get me started on the updated ping system. We’re not even allowed to ping our team mates ulti is up. So now when I want my Karthus to ulti. It’s physically impossible to tell him. Because my chat is off and I cannot ping his ulti… nice one riot ruin one of the competitive aspect of the game because a few snowflakes got offended that I pinged their ulti because it has been up for the last 15 minutes. Or the support that keeps dieing with both summs up every fight. Or the jungler that missed smite. My fault I guess?
30 days?

This must be like the 3rd time you get a Chatban 😂
Send a ticket to the support, they should unban you asap imo.
That’s what they did on a case like this for me
Im getting banned for the stupidest shit every 2-4 weeks. The fact that i applied this and didn’t get a response in 3 days is also great
This happened to me, I just raised a ticket and got a pretty quick response from a riot employee saying it was a false positive. Reversed the ban and apologised.
Having a chat ban is fine. Just focus on what you’re doing and try to communicate with pings
I got 2 7 day chat bans removed basically within 2 weeks, submit a ticket and hope for the best. I even had submitted 2 tickets for 1 ban because I basically insinuated that there potentially maybe might have been a bot gap and got banned. Submit a ticket because they might undo the ban.
Welll ofc someone gets banned for writing normal stuff about the game and the adc that calls everyone slurs and tell their sup to off themselves not. Some might say the system has some flaws 🤔🤔
It's a false positive, their harassment auto detection system is too sensitive. I would recommend sending this to Riot support, so the devs can improve it.
if you read the first few sentences , its described , that u seem difficult to play with over a LARGE NUMBER of matches and teammates.
your overall behaviour just svcks.
Im a muted girl, so i use chat to like talk with friends while playing and i got chat restricted for the past 14 days after making fun/talking in PARTY chat with them. I did say nothing crazy at all, was a bit sad in the past 14 days c: didnt dare to ask the supp tho but if it happens again i do and hope they understand
Deserved for posting on reddit
Banned for being toxic, doesn't matter if the person you were flaming was yourself

/s
You Type ; You lose
I usually post in chat the worst racial slurs that my native language allows me to utter and I always get away with it because the system doesn't recognize them as such; I recommend that you adopt this strategy
Micro managing like this is ban worthy
You put way more Ds on xdd. Deserved. Anyway, you can send a ticket to riot.
wheres the n bomb at cant see it
You need to type words the language model used for banning cannot recognize. Instead of cancer write cacncncaner and so on. Or just dont chat at all
“I trolled”
blitzcrank bot moment
I don’t like the solution of “don’t chat”. It’s a multiplayer game and saying don’t chat is not addressing the actual problem. I wish riot would step up their game and at least pretend to try
I got a warning for something that looked like this

Wp!

Im going bot

I will build frozen heart second

(Context: Morde said "you are building tank with lillia? You are so stupid")

Morde, i trust what challenger players build more that what a silver mordekaiser tells me.

Good job mid
Bruh I been toxic non stop. Max I get is chat restricted for like 7 days and no 5 ranked games. You did more than just your normal toxicity
Fuck. Dafuq, fk... too many swear words, their tool cant differentiate if it was for your or the enemy team... just mute!
Riot really pussyfied this game so hard
Show pic of post game chat
I banned orianna,

My teammates asked why I banned orianna

“Orianna is cancer”

Chat restriction lol
Sus, didn't post post chat.
So as far as I know any sort of profanity or slur or wtv is eligible for restriction by riot... happen to me once never used profanity again and never got restricted again
I learned that typing the word "retarded" regardless of context gets you auto chat restricted. I sneak up on my friend playing and type it in his game. He can't type now for a month.

The word "retard" however is fine.
Honestly?
Skill issue, git gud
Apparently if you say stuff like "i trolled" or "i inted" it can get ban if anyoen reports you for anything random
I am a real hater with these posts,  i admit. Most these post are bs to me. 

But this was great coms. Undeserved imo. But yea, need to stop using "bad words" etc. Personaly i would love if the would lower the bar. I dont see you bullying someone or something.
Riot when you communicate.
[deleted]
Appeal it.
Average league of legends chat bot
this useless company is just trying its hardest to make us stop using chat so they dont have to deal with toxicity 👍 smart move rajot
Stop playing this dogshit game so they get the message
What a fucking joke..Riota that is.
RAJOOOOT!!!
Told our mid to „kindly shut the fuck up“ and cry my a river. Got 3 days 😂😂😂
Try to appeal the ban I got chat restricted once, tried to appeal, some lib tard on the appeal committee said no, I re appealed got a decent human being with more than one brain cell instantly unchat restricted me. Get fucked riot
LOL what did you say post game?
Got ban for saying cringe lmao. No but seriously riot seriously don’t know what they’re doing at this point. I don’t chat this much but I’m silver so it’s deserved, communicating with your team to win should never be ban in a game with no voice chat. Idk what riot are doing now but we should all just mute all play the game and never give them any feedback because doesn’t look like that is how the game should be played.
I got chat banned for a week and honor reset for typing "Penis" in all chat 5 seconds into the game and then nothing else for the rest of the game, including pre & post lobby.

Submitted ticket and tried to reason with the customer CS until I basically got a response that summed up to "don't write here again or we'll make it worse" 

 Don't type anything a 6 year old would not be allowed to hear by strict parents.
Yo fellow rengar player
yea I gave up trying to make sense a while ago.
chat??? Banned. 

Running games down till iron 4? Buy skins hehe
I got a 30 day ban for saying they coming to bang me bot. As in the avengers we’re assembling and it was looking like a dive was moving my way. Think I said that and GG. Riot just doesn’t want you using chat. But the guy running it down at lvl 1 is just fine.
Are you sure it is not because of other previous games and this chat log happens to be just stupid? I have never ever been chat banned from lol
you can appeal it, ez pz.
It's typing 'fcking' and being reported by multiple members.
"You don't need pings. You can type in chat, you know?"

Types in chat:
Your biggest mistake was using the chat tbh, only use chat to announce your intentions, not your opinions; only use it for things like “ ganking at lvl x , enemy going up , invading jungle “ and things like that, otherwise mute everyone
Friend of mine got chat banned for simply telling someone that “this is the most boring lane I’ve ever played” as the Lissandra refused to move out from tower. So while I don’t think it was worth a ban, it sure doesn’t surprise me.
100% would ve muted you , i aint reading a novel.  
But dont think you should be chatrestricted for this
I once got banned cuz I fucked up and said I was retarded. I mean sure I shouldn't be calling anyone retarded but I think it wasn't that bad toward my teammates.
I got a perma ban for saying “ban kassa if you got a big penis” in pre game. Said nothing during the game or after and won that game
Fuck riot for this lmao
i got a chat ban for a month for saying "man that's gay" (its a joke) in postgame chat. riots ban systems are hilariously bad and encourage rather than discourage toxic behavior.
What you’re communicating is fine. But like, dude, you can’t type fk or something like that in game. Regardless of how utterly stupid it is, the fact is that bans are incredibly common based off cussing, abbreviations or not. 

I’m on your side here. It really is a bit insane that fk can get someone a 30 day ban. HOWEVER. We know this. We’ve known this. It’s unfortunately part of the rules we have to play with. You can’t cuss. Point blank period. It doesn’t matter if you should be able to. It doesn’t matter if it’s ignorant af for riot to have these type of restrictions. BUT. This isn’t new news. It’s well documented. 

TLDR: it’s dumb but what did you expect?
ive been muting all since 1 year

this alone made me get to diamond (emerald 2 rn) ngl; if you listen to them you’ll start thinking like them, and there’s a reason why they don’t climb…

they are bad
This is the sole reason i stopped playing the game.
My man been writing more than playing 🤣🤣
clearly deserved lmao (its a joke)
I had a support flame me for not taking dragons despite them getting crushed bot lane. The support proceeded to steak my camps, abandoning the adc, while baiting fights then running away. Its sad how much you can get away with in game while saying just a few things in chat gets you banned.

FYI Riot. Players can choose to mute toxic chatters. You can't mute blatant trollers.
Yea rito rather ban chat than the idiots who don't play the game, they went way too far on " toxicity" I can't even type gay, bitch, or kill yourself.... Got the same bans on each...Like it was part of the game made me not want to play anymore, but it's ok if the bot keeps farming doesn't help on objectives and does shit when you hard cc the opponent, but hey if you know another languages you can still talk hardcore shit n they won't do nothing which is weird
Sucks you got banned. Honestly how the fuck can you jungle this season anyways when Riot Phreak, the head of balance, literally nerfed Jungle to Oblivion, as HE BELIEVED the role was OP. Whelp, now new jungle sucks ass, the jungle player has to have a team that rotates to invades and objectives, and jungle can't safely farm or take objectives alone anymore. The new map makes it damn near impossible to gank anything without getting spotted on wards. Every jungle game is now just a team diff.

Probably a good thing you got banned. This game has gone to shit because the balance team is fucking sucking at their jobs. They nerf jungle continuously, but take 6 months to nerf kaisa to where she's finally not picked/banned, only for us to now have to deal with constantly roaming supports, mid and top being 4 levels ahead of jungle/bot late game, and we get to deal with the new pick/bans: Twisted Fate and Moakai, who they can't fix after 3 patches in a row. 

Riot had made their own game suck.
They are using bots to issue bans, bots will bad based on specific words
riot is a shit company when it comes to this...i guess just lose the match and not type anything cause you have monkeys in ur team that dont know how to play the game...
Idk what rank was that but its sad.
Also why riot even added the chat at first....if you dont like what i type mute me its simply as that...whatever man feel bad 4 u. happend to me 3 times already...ig they want us to lose games cause no one have a tactic or they play like bots.
Meanwhile the person who gets 0/15 on purpose still plays the game with no problems
Color me surprised. I legit got banned for few days for literally saying "sex". That's it. No context. Nothing. Just that. Wanted to /r my friend and missed the chat. Guess someone was mad for losing and just randomly reported me.
I try not to type anymore but it sucks when they are actively removing pings which makes it harder for me to nonverbally communicate.
I swear all the time and never get temp bans.
Fertocity 😟
This is known as the "bossing around" and its kind of common thing  to be banned for XD which is  retarded IK 

Anyway 30 days ban dont come out of nowhere im an avid trashtalker who gets multiple chatbanns a  year and  i never got 30 day  chat banns before.

Idk what u did before this frankly i dont care but honestly  this  should be a  clear indication to you to stop using chat as a whole.
You must be a really whiney player that gets reported a lot, that is the only thing I can think of.
back in s10 I had a big issue with typing. I literally lost 13 accounts that season. some bans were from genuine toxicity, but one of them was banned for completely non-toxic chat and when I contacted support they informed me that simply typing “too much” is “distracting” for teammates. after that ive just avoided sending over 3-5 messages a game and i haven’t even had a single chat restriction over the last 3.5 seasons
Why do you people type so much. Legit pointless and a waste of time. Maybe out everything you said there the baron call was the only thing you needed to type.
My goodness. You are a real yapper.
Message riot and say their ban bot incorrectly banned you they will revert it
This system is SO fucked up. 

I lost count on how many times I refused to interect with my team when their jockin pre-minion spawn cuz I've been warned for saying "hahahahahah that one about the girlfriend frkng got me", literally the only thing I said the whole game.

Fucked up system
I reckon it's a 30 day ban so you stop typing. I'd mute ya pretty quick in my games
I was banned before and It was from a flex game I got 4v1 on. And I was just defending myself no name calling or anything. I messaged support about it. What I learnt was.

Since I previously had chat restrictions you system will ding you more. Like - a repeat offender. If you get what I mean.

Also learnt that - even if you're defending yourself. Defending someone. Or just overly using chat and being a disturbance to others is also not tolerated.
I got wished death couple of times in game and in chat after bro added me, reported it to riot, nothing happened. Me chatting a lot with no single disrespect: chatban. System is automated, my guess is that it accounts how many different people report you.
Deserved ban  just stop typing nerd
Not surprised. I got 3 for saying men don't stink.
Obviously there's nothing ban worthy there, but I just don't understand why people type this much. Maybe I'm just getting older but as the seasons go by I type less and less, its just not worth engaging with people. At this stage I have chat entirely turned off and I just communicate my movements with pings
I still want to understand Riot's ability to be the only 5x5 competitive gaming company that doesn't have fucking voice chat
Obviously, you insulted the enemy team "they're so bad". Im surprised that you're not permabanned
Of course it isn’t and Riot like you said fucked up the system. 

Allow me to expand the issue a bit more, because in my case someone was flaming me hard and at some point I answer. What a surprise I got a ban, which is stupid because Riot demands to shut up and just mute. Well why don’t remove completely and be done with it. 
Of course then we would have even more inters, but Riot doesn’t care about the anyway
At this point let all chat be unfiltered. Dumbass system that makes a toxic role that much more toxic.
You can get banned even if you type one swear or other harmless shit if enough people will report you. That's the flawless riot ban system
This isn’t why you got banned. You got banned for slinging slurs around game after game AND THEN since the system gives you less slack after every infraction, this seemingly harmless exchange where someone maybe reported all caps or “theyre so fking bad” was the straw that broke the camels back. Even though this one is inoffensive.

Edit:I don’t mean literally spouting slurs(necessarily), but being exponentially more of a dick than this misleading catch.
one time said "sorry im stupid today" after a failed gank in the middle of regular game talk then got a 30 day chat restriction that was swiftly remove by riot support.

So yeah... you are not alowed to flame yourself it's toxic bahavior xD.
boi i’m chat restricted since april 2023
If you say any word in the dictionary which can be perceived to have a negative connotation, you'll get chat banned. I've gotten a warning for saying stupid before
Riot saying STFU and just farm
Perhaps the chat log is not a good example but what is consistent is that you get heavily reported on a large set of games. And also you have a habit of typing in chat. If they just report you but there's not much of a chat log it's harder to ban.
Yeah it's probably because of the word "kill". It's well known that you can't tell someone to do that to themselves (even the three-letter version of that is an automatic "zero tolerance" mute). They probably have a filter on that word to try to catch people circumventing that restriction, but it's a perfect example of "doing more harm than good" because... a "kill" is an actual in-game term, and one that's LITERALLY spoken by the announcer.
You type way too much. Disable chat and focus on the game. Use pings
s*** literally feels like psyop.
you typed more then 25 times  usually thats the limit for a ban in this game sadly
Lol you got forced to use my default settings. Always always always turn off chat. Every game. No chat
9 9999 ii9o9l
Nah, when I called someone a faggot that was warranted
Stop talking the entire game and play holy shit lol
What did the post game chat say?
stop.  typing.  like.  this.  and. send every message in one text, it auto reports you for spam when you send 2 words every 3 seconds
They have made it easy to mute people, they can stop policing chat now. You don’t like someone’s chat, mute them. Takes one click on the scoreboard.
Woke asss snowflake pandering company 💀
I could be playing with the worst human being in history and not give a shit as long they don’t go 0/5 in lane
good. you type too damn much. players like you are so annoying. imagine if you spent the time and energy you do typing and whining, into actually trying to win the game
Ingot muted for calling my latest team homo-neanderthal
The more you rack up punishments the less leash you have. And the system is oversensitive.  Source: 2 overturned restricts
Posted "post game:"
Sure, theres nothing in post tho
It’s the word kill, happened to me before because I said “kill ashe”. Got a 30 day chat restriction as well and I don’t type much, let alone typing anything bad
People have been banned for saying "kill" in context of the game
this is an example of how actual retarded their system is. It's a combination of how much you type and how many people from the match report you. Say you type a lot but nothing hostile but your entire team reports you, there's a high chance you will get flagged. Also, as soon as your account is restricted/sensitive, every action you do is like magnified and makes it more easy for you to get banned. You can get away with typing so much shit when high honor, vs if you said those same things after a 2w ban, you're account will get perma
I got banned cause I wrote "Kaisa needs one q + auto to kill me" "retarded champ".
Apparently"insulting" champs is worse than feeding for rito. When I wrote the support I got the standard response and just quit lol cause it was so stupid it made me mad.
This shouldn't be the case and that's the problem. This is a team game. The quality of coms is part of the equation when it comes to pulling through with a victory. Proper coordination and communication is vital in any team game but especially one like this where five people have very set roles with individualized objectives that are very easy to get lost in and miss the bigger picture of a situation.

Jungler is ahead and knows enemy jungle is on the other side of the map. Pings to take grubs. From his perspective, completely reasonable. Top lane pings danger, three times no less. Wow, he must not be aware of how free this is, oh well I don't need him. Suddenly a 2-0 Darius level 6 comes down and eats you alive because the wordless cacophany of pings often gets reduced to "Wow this player is angry" Instead of "Hey this darius is kicking my ass and shoved me if he walks down I can't follow"

The situation would've been diffused by some sort of voice com system or even typing but because of the reasons you gave, most people have chat off at this point. Now everyone is more toxic because of it, oh and guess what, the jungler is dead so now he has 10 seconds to type whatever vile shit he wishes to his "Blind top laner" Who made a reasonable decision that throwing 3 waves just to show up to a darius about to get 5 bleed and double dunk you both wasn't the right one.

Why does Riot want to act like 4Kidz dubs in the early 2000's? I have a mute button, if someone starts screaming I will use it. The benefits far outweigh the costs and it would utterly destroy a lot of hindsight is 20/20 moments and make people realize "Hey maybe this play wasn't the best option. Maybe we shouldn't all be mid as a melee heavy team into xerath and velkoz and take a fight after getting poked down half our bars"
Game starts. Anyone says anything.

Well guess I have to type /mute all
Ain’t that the truth. Back in the day I received a 600 game chat restriction for simply typing ‘:)’ in chat. To be fair, I wasn’t a good boy in chat just like 95% of the League players around that time, but not wanting to risk my account I decided to stop talking all together except for the occasional :). Guess that doesn’t fly either
Sad but true. To be honest my game experience improved from it too.

Turn back on if you're playing with friends, or better to just use discord.
It's typically "swear = ban"
This.. bot accounts don't get banned, soft inting doesn't get banned, hard inting only sometimes gets banned. Chat will always get you banned.
Even if you set chat to party only amd write there without anyone seeing it you will get banned xdd riot is so pathetic
While this is true, this is a quick way to kill a game. If riot does not sort this report bullshit out league gonna bleed out.

These comms are top tier.
No chat=ban.  

I've verified this when I had a LAN party with friends, I was playing on a Smurf account and the 4 of them would report me after every game and also encouraged the enemy team to report me. I got a 30 day chat restriction despite not having used chat even once. Had no luck with riot support either, even when I got into contact with a human they basically just told me that some players found my actions (what fucking actions???) offensive and therefore the chat restriction was justified.
Stupid is also bannable
Yeah I got a chat restriction last season for saying "Sorry guys I got fucking cooked by Gravss." First time I've ever got chat restricted in this in 8 years. Now I just don't even type anything.
This is hilarious because I vividly remember when the auto in game restrictions started they specifically said you won't get banned for saying fuck
Whats the k word?
I typed big with an N by accident and got banned also xD
Honestly banning people for dying is not correct also

You might have a bad day, your brain might be rotten, the other one is just skilled enough... The correct punishment for these people (non-proposital-feeders) is already done: loose MMR, loose LP.
Got 4 chat bans this year. 3 were reverted after I appealed. On the 4th, no reversion because I typed "Riot chose you 4 by finger". Havent played since then (3 weeks). At least Riot is curing my 10 year addiction.
I never understand why ppl ping a jungler smite when they lose a 50/50. They clearly know it’s up. It’s a 50/50 for a reason
Problem with turning off chat is, you cant communicate with your team what you want or what the plan is, I've noticed i play game worse when  I cant tell my team my calls or what i think we need( im in low gm elo).

The other day i had chally galio mid, who went full tank, and i couldn't tell him that we need ap damage, and we lost since we lacked in damage. We were winning early, but lost mid late since we had no damage to kill enemy team.

They juet need to disable chat restrictions alltogether, why have it, when ppl can just mute toxic guys?
I haven't even received a warning. Sometimes it doesnt Show the correct chatlogs that justified a ban. There must have been more in the past.
Want to see their response?
They won't help, I tried to contact support after getting ranked restriction, honor reset and chat banned for typing "Penis" 5 seconds into the game and nothing else. They told me they won't do anything about it and to stop contacting them

Edit: interesting downvotes... I got the logs to back it up
Funny, riot employee said to me, their system is never false, always correct and that i was heavily reported, tho he won't show me the games and  chatl ogs where i was reported.

Their system never makes mistakes :p I can send you screenshot if you want.
big hug, the System is so stupid sometimes
cry about it then
It has almost nothing to do with that and it's more that nobody is reporting you because they don't know wtf you're saying. Chat = reports and reports = ban.
I siad once "resio si majmuna" which can translate to like "you rekt the monkey", i was talking to my friend on serbian, because my house was loud at the time and i couldn't talk to him on voice, just talking on serbian and i got 14 says because i said that sentence and i said "wtf".


It took them 14 days to tell me why i got banned, they were avoiding my questions altogether, saying it was justified, i can ss that and post it if you want to see it here.

Like i was super toxic when  I was younger, but i really improved a lot, i now cringe how toxic and retarded i was, but it seems no matter how much i improve, ill still get punished, so what's the point of improving then?
Or you can just wish them kayn sir
Rage against the machine boys
Sure why not blame the system instead of change your toxic behavior 😑
*You type way too much.*

*Disable chat and focus*

*On the game. Use pings*

\- FistinKittens

---

^(I detect haikus. And sometimes, successfully.) ^[Learn&#32;more&#32;about&#32;me.](https://www.reddit.com/r/haikusbot/)

^(Opt out of replies: "haikusbot opt out" | Delete my comment: "haikusbot delete")
Everyone in the comments: “don’t chat”, you saying almost the same thing: downvote stream lmao (for the post itself yeah I agree a 30 day ban is a bit much for only that, I wonder if riot just decided not to send actual hateful bits of chat lmao, but yeah the least there’s actual text in chat the better the game will be 90% of the time)
You do realize this is a team game? You gotta communicate with your team? You think teams who dont talk to each other win more often than teams who communicate with each other?
Nothing, there was nothing in post game.
I was gm 430 lp, i uninstalled game yesterday, don't wanna play the game that punishes you for being good  and trying to improve
It’s actually insane how this system works. I have had some friends say some extremely foul things that I would expect warranted a near perma ban/chat restriction and they don’t get any punishment, but once you get punished once you can’t get away with just even being annoyed with your team 😂
Yup I had 2 permabanned account around S6/7. As soon as I get hit with a chat restriction, everything I said no matter how small, immediately upgraded me to the next punishment to an eventual perma ban. People would always assume I'm throwing hard slurs or some shit, but it's really just passive aggressive towards teammates while already sensitive. Years later, I can flame teammates as much as I want but no punishment because I am high honor. Just a stupid system
This was always my hunch. I'll see people on here getting punished for the smallest things and I'll have friends (and by friends I mean me) who sometimes say some of the most aggressive shit and not get as much as a slap on the wrist.
My most recent chat log had 0 quotes and yet I have a chat restriction for "toxic chat" I didn't even type. I'm currently trying to get it revoked.

Playing late at night is annoying because you're constantly spammed with reports by cry baby laners.
It's the word retarded. I constantly bypass the bot by not using keywords.  If you write retarded you are sure to get a warning, restriciton or ban. Regardless of the context. Same way for fag, nigg etc
i agree 

but it the way of the game now you just expect it 

can't ping your supports item so they actually put a ward down 

can't ping your team karthus r if it will secure kill if he just push the button 

and you defo can't chat 

chat = restrict at the minimum 

i been playing with it off theres nothing my dog teammates can type to me that has any value 

and they not worth the ban if i dare flame or even worth a restrict for just typing about the game 

trust take this as a learning curve and just turn it off you decrease your ban/restrict rate instantly
Shouldn’t be the way the game is. I had the same mid player two games in a row run it down because in the first game they had died 4 times in the first 5 minutes. Were always pushed up, tried to fight middle of mid and didn’t have wards
how often do you get teams that actually communicate properly? 1 in 30? 29 times you will have people typing useless things, giving bad advices, or misusing pings.
If you can't explain with pings. You're using pings wrong.
>This is a team game. The quality of coms is part of the equation when it comes to pulling through with a victory.

Yes, and flamers polluting the chat with stuff thats not relevant to the game reduces the quality of coms so it makes sense to chat ban them.            

Flamers being chat banned will never affect your winrate because both teams will get them with equal probability. So even if we accept the premise that flamers have something valuable to say and that the chat ban is thus a disadvantage for their team, it doesnt change your winrate. In fact, it actually boosts your winrate if youre not a flamer yourself because you get 4 random teammates while the enemy gets 5.            

If you are a flamer, its entirely your decision to flame so you dont get to blame anyone but yourself.
damn it, you should have played safe!

happy cake day though
So is ape.

I know someone who said 'sorry I'm such an ape'.

He got banned for it.
Moron too but god forbid i have to  write a  ticket to riot  when a guy tells me to get a  rope and hang myself cuz "THATS HARD TO DETECT"  and i had to hit up the  ticket  again so i get an actual "human" response which is the same old  ctrl c+v  answers.



Now i just  say  it like sht  rtd spd mrn garbo pretty much   being offensive to ppl  through gibberish.
k i l l
I'm sorry but you are wrong.

Yes, everyone has bad games, it happens.

No one goes 0/10 in 10 minutes without inting tho.
“3 were reverted” does anything more even need to be said about that? I always said an automatic justice system was a bad idea… I’d prefer the old tribunal over a bot deciding my fate.


Edit: not trying to boast. And I’m definilty not proud. But over my 13 years of league. I’ve probably had easily 60 accounts permed. And 100’s of chat restrictions. Majority of them was due to swearing. You carnt stop a Brit from swearing. You just carnt. So chat stays off these days.
Try playing with more than 80 ping and smashing the smite button only for nothing to happen -- so embarrassing. It's the worse. Bonus points if no one zones the enemy jungler which is what causes the 50/50 in the first place.
I completely and utterly agree with you… the system is just flawed and the snow flakes ruined it for most people. Not being able to ping your karthus to ulti. Not being able to communicate plans. Not being able to tell someone they messed up the lane so now you need more help. We just have to be happy with what we get regardless of the situation. Bot lane is 0/16? That’s fine. Saying fuck? Not so much. If you don’t like my chat mute me, should be riots slogan.
I do, in that particular case if it’s negative I would still try to send a second ticket for an other employee to check, I realy don’t see anything worth even 1hour ban
I’m curious. I can imagine though haha
Please do post it when they do
My only time getting in trouble was when I typed “You cannot run from the long dick of the law” in all chat when I was like 22/2 on Caitlyn one time
Fun Fact: They aren't Riot employees. They're subcontractors. Their paychecks are signed by a company called VMC Consulting.

They do appear to be in a slack chat with some riot employees, however.
Please do because this sound goofy af
I am not OP
I'm perfectly fine with that too, I don't give a damn WHY I don't get banned
It's toxic to obviously jokingly say "man, that's gay" ?
Use pings. 3/4ths of this is absolutely useless.
Then drag the screenshot down a bit more because where you cut it looks like your trying to hide it imo
I don't care. good riddance to players like you. you're insufferable
I got a chat restriction after years of honor 5's for stating someone's win rate.
Yeah sure it is. But context SHOULD matter especially when I write the support. I know it's easier to just send a standard response but it shouldn't be like that especially when the next one who runs it down gets nothing.
Yeah I don't think you're wrong. I just hate how Riot believes that "Toxicity" Is the main thing ruining the game when it's probably lowest on the list of maybe ten things. So much is done to make sure people are scared of talking in a team game and it's probably taken its toll on the skill growth of everyone. My friends and I genuinely play better in Clash because we're in call. The games feel more real. You get one pick and someone says "Hey we can baron off that" And like a unit we all immediately move to take it.

 I dare you to try that in a ranked game. Actually don't because you can ping it five times and your adc will still farm, your top will still split and that pick you just got will mean nothing. Maybe this is just my own personal gripe with how laners love to take absurd risks early game but don't make any moves late even when it's obvious, but the lack of Riot's willingness to just let people sort out their own social experience in a multiplayer game is just weird to me and it genuinely disheartens me that an entire generation of gamers is just accepting it as a norm to be dealt with. Shrug your shoulders and keep  your mouth shut as the 0-3 bot lane shoves into a now fed Draven Naut lane when you're nowhere near them.
forsen
Personally I'd be happy if Riot perma chat restricted me. It would help me tilt less.
No one is against flamers being chat banned. This point seems a bit out of place, no? 

I think everyone agrees - ban the flamers. However it seems that just using the chat function can land you a ban. *THAT* is what we don't want.
Ape and monkey are both on the list. Don’t say anything about Wukong
Lmfao my username is literally ape
[deleted]
Wrong in a way. Unfortunately a friend of mine is terrible at every game we play and the friend group will still allow her to play, whatever lane she plays, unless baby sat, will be a loss, saddest thing is where she’s trying and not simply inting.
Wrong.

I've done it multiple times. (Edit: not within 10 min) 
Never intentionally (which is what Inting means)

I'm just bad at evaluating which fights I win Vs lose.

F.ex, I've died twice, and I know the enemy is stronger.

But this time I have more minions, so I should win. But then I die.

This time I have Summs and R, enemy doesn't, and then I die.

This time I have turret, and then I die.

This time I have jungler

This time

This time
Some champs, all it takes is one death and your no longer safe even under turret. Do you have to chose between staying, get some XD, then die, or leaving, falling even more behind, and die
What I do is I swear out loud using my voice. 

Riot can't moderate my voice lol.
I started the game a few years ago and the ingame chat was wild but it was okay. You can mute players anyway so no real reason to restrict someone because of some slurs (not talking about sexist, racial [...] ones)
Yes, it is. That's why they banned you. I know there are a lot toxic things that get said but that doesn't mean what you said wasn't toxic.
Lmao
Yeah it looks like that, didn't think of it that way, because there was nothing in it, you can check my profile and see the newest post with the ss of it
XD
Ouch that's harsh.  I got perma banned by calling my jungler a microbe. Granted, I had several chat restrictions and even a 14 day ban before, but when the perma hammer hit, my chat logs were only 4 lines, me stating some summoner cool downs, and then one line where I say "Rengar please don't talk you're a microbe thanks"
The situations you just described is my issue with this game. Why does everyone but so much importance on solo queue when it’s a team game? We should be encouraged to find a group of people to play consistently with. I see no issue with voice being added. Sure I’ll get harassed here and there but they can add a mute button.
Try DOTA 2 with voice activated on EU, then post back with results.
sebastian fors
I have played this game for over 10 years with multiple thousand hours and have never received a chat ban of any length in my life. And I often play very stupid off meta strategies so I'm pretty sure I already get more reports than the average player. I also have friends that have played even longer than me who also never got a chat ban ever. Youre extremely unlikely to get a chat ban for normally using the chat and most people who say otherwise are hiding some past chats with obvious flaming that put them on riots radar.
Bro I got flagged for racism for calling someone an ape (stupid) I'm like I literally said nothing about race so the fact that you think ape is racist is racist in and of itself wrf
I mean its mostly a joke from seeing Alois getting banned for saying "kill bot"
Like @jona080605 says Riot can and actually do know how well someone played. They have a ranking system after is game, so the monitori and ranking system is running. In my opinion which I said for years the points that they give and take should be according to everyone’s performance m, because on the other side there were times that my team carried a 2/12/0 mid laner who did absolutely nothing in whole game. I feel that this guy shouldn’t get full points for a win. It’s unfair to all the players.
Sure, if you are Iron3 and playing against a smurf or something its okay to be THIS bad.
Real
Sounds like you were inting idk
When u get autofilled mid once every 100 games or so never play mid and no one wants to switch 😂 and u get the 60% winrate yas onetrick 

That’s my 0/10 moment, bro started diving me lvl 3
no you’re inting. You don’t die 10 times in 10 minutes ever, no matter what excuse you try to pull out of your ass, unless you are at the VERY least tilted and don’t care about winning anymore. You’re just an inter that won’t admit it.
Callings things gay for fun has been a very common thing for decades. It's in no way toxic and you being a crybaby about it doesn't change it 
You don't need to type no summs. Or when the enemy uses ults, saying to not take objectives and to do another, Etc. 

Just ping it.
Yeah looks like fore sure a false positive. Reach out to support and it will be reversed almost certainly.
You need better talk back skills. When people talk shit to me I say "you're a silly little boy". Very effective and no way I'm getting chatbanned for it
My old old old account that got permabanned was permabanned for telling some one to stop trolling me because they were a nunu following me in the jungle eating my camps.

They never overturned it either. Meanwhile my not anymore friend Spork called people the N word and to slit their throats for months without punishment. Good times.
There already is a mute button for text and I don't know of any game of  this size that has coms and not a mute button so I agree.
Play dota on eu definitely less toxic than league.
Never been a fan of the game and if that's supposed to be some scathing rebuttal that we shouldn't have VC in league because another game in another region is toxic it falls flat because, and let me all caps this because it seems to be missed by every single proponent of keeping this game a zero com mess.

I CAN PRESS THE MUTE BUTTON.
>I have played this game for over 10 years with multiple thousand hours and have never received a chat ban of any length in my life.

So have I, and many other people, and see a trend in chat bans becoming more frequent and for less and less. I have been chat restricted on more than one occasion for asking to ff a game where we have a duo trolling - which have all been revoked after days which is also pointless considering I got punished for days for something deemed to be ok. I have also had chat restriction for flaming people who are intentionally running it down from minute one which is literally backwards. 

>And I often play very stupid off meta strategies so I'm pretty sure I already get more reports than the average player.

This has literally *NOTHING* to do with chat restrictions. Completely useless point to make. 

>Youre extremely unlikely to get a chat ban for normally using the chat and most people who say otherwise are hiding some past chats with obvious flaming that put them on riots radar.

Not true. It happens regularly. If you use chat frequently the chances of you getting a restriction are high. The automatic system is fundamentally flawed and your personal experience doesn't discount the others who have poor experiences. 

If they're FORCING us to use chat, then they need to ease the limitations, just a bit.
Well, she only plays when we all play, therefore that system wouldn’t matter as it usually only takes two or three of us to be able to carry the game. Course, it feels as if she drags down the match making pretty hard.
It's not unfair. Win is a win. There are many games I went 5/12 but drew in a lot of pressure early, lot of pressure by splitting and carrying lategame because I farmed up by taking towers and stealing camps. There are many factors that riot can't judge, so if I play a tank jng with low cs, 0 kills, high deaths and high assists I should get lower lp?
I m emerald on a 55% winrate. And I had some 0/10 games too when autofilled and getting a strong opponent I mean jeah it suck but it happens 🤷🏻‍♂️
I was a Platinum player, haven't climbed after rank reset though.
I didn't really see the ten minutes thing. Fair enough. I don't think I've ever done it in 10 min.

But the definition of Inting is intentionally losing. Which I have never done.
Yea ever since that perma ban I just say things like "I love you <3" and "you're a very special boy who deserves special love" and other weird things that cannot be classified as toxicity but are extremely tilting for bullies/toxic players.
I got my accout chat banned for typing: 
- Lick my shovel
- I know youre a lazy person because your garden is overgrown
- Fat man
- You can suck my green thumb
(was playing yorick jungle) 

 Ever since i just type "XD" and "OK Cool" when my teammates flame and it works wonders.
So the argument to enable voice chat in a more toxic environment than Dota2 sounds like a good idea to you then?
My proposal is simply to try the usage of voice chat in another game with the same basic principles so you can see the results for yourself. I have tried both and have text chat disabled in League as well as Voice + Text disabled in DOTA2.
Im just saying if you’re too against muting chat, i don’t believe you’d mute voice lol. If you’re so adamant about still seeing other’s stuff mute your own chat, so you can read and stuff and only unmute for real quick types then right back to being muted. Thats what i do, and i’ve typed paragraphs of flame and hit send just to remember i was muted and have to laugh a lil at myself
I wanted to write a longer reply but deleted it. At the end of the day, there are so many players like me and my friends who ""somehow"" never got wrongfully banned despite playing for over a decade. You, having admitted to flaming, still say you got banned for "normally using chat". This discussion ended then and there.
I believe I described the situation with detail and say something else is completely irrelevant to what I am saying. 

By the way Riot’s game ranking system isn’t calculated only KDA. If it did, supports would almost never get an S.
Thats why you are emerald.
not sure if you're human bro
So that's a yes
People more toxic because they cant communicate via game. That's dumb. If u cant press mute button - thats ur fault
I grew up on TF2 and Halo voice chat. I've seen the results and found them preferable still
>You, having admitted to flaming, still say you got banned for "normally using chat". This discussion ended then and there.

You conveniently ignore the part where I said I've been chat restricted but it's been reverted after I appealed. Somehow you didn't read that part because it flies in the face of your argument. Typical Reddit. The argument ends at my comment because you have nothing to retort. Period.
Doesn't matter. The system can't calculate you dying in splitpush while drawing 3 people over and team getting free 4v2. It can't calculate you getting giga camped and astro counterpicked. Sometimes going 0/4 afk under tower is your best and only play so why is the 10/0 akali who got camped by your jng and got the freest matchup getting more LP and I'm getting less LP? 

The current system works just fine we don't need to break it and try to shape it again unsuccessfully. The system won't be able to be nearly accurate enough for this to work while being fair.
Meh decently high. If I was playing all roles I d probably be somewhere in gold 😂

I mean if I have to supp, adc or go top I manage to play it save.

But fml mid is terrible for me, so mechanical, so much burst and it’s so god damn easy to die.

Thanks god I almost never get it, like maybe once in a 100 games 😂
I read it and originally responded to it in my longer comment. But I wanted to end the argument here because realistically, I dont think anything I say will convince you.
You insist on describing other occasions and I honestly don’t know why. All your questions are answered in my original comment and the system isn’t working successfully otherwise most people would have complaints with it from top elo to bottom. 

Also you absolutely don’t know how the algorithm of the ranking system works.
Me, and the many others with the same experience.
Baus is getting warnings for Comms Abuse 
...which in reality is just spam report from people that play with him and hates his playstyle. This guy is not typing whatsoever. He is NOT using pings in toxic way. People JUST doesn't agree with his playstyle. And thats the sole reason he got warning.

**By now, i think we figured out that numbers of reports, even false reports, are directly linked to your honor progress, warnings and...**

https://preview.redd.it/j1nwghckndzc1.png?width=1311&format=png&auto=webp&s=3240bdaf6287185099ecde3c5ae5bb56c9e6402b

**...If this goes this trend, soon you will be banned just based on fact enough (more than avarage) people reported you.**

Quite ridiculous if you ask me. A most toxic community with a lynch tool? What could've go wrong?

I bringed it up already:  
Here: [https://www.reddit.com/r/Jungle\_Mains/comments/1cj3uqs/yeah\_we\_will\_all\_get\_banned\_and\_noone\_will\_be/](https://www.reddit.com/r/Jungle_Mains/comments/1cj3uqs/yeah_we_will_all_get_banned_and_noone_will_be/)  
and here:  [https://www.reddit.com/r/Jungle\_Mains/comments/1chay0z/comment/l28zaiy/?context=3](https://www.reddit.com/r/Jungle_Mains/comments/1chay0z/comment/l28zaiy/?context=3)

Source: [https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0iAs6fZxKzA&ab\_channel=Thebausffs](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0iAs6fZxKzA&ab_channel=Thebausffs)
This needs to be upvoted more and cross posted to the main subreddit. The childish way Riot is forcing him to effectively admit guilt for something he hasn’t done before letting him queue again is really frustrating to see.
Ridikulas
I recently had an account get a penalty on NA.
Sent a ticket to riot, and a few days later it was all sorted, and they apologized for the error. Honour progression, name lost and everything fixed.
Shouldn't this be posted on league main sub?
I got honor level 5 last season with Shaco, felt illegal
I got this warning even though the only thing I type is "gg gl next" at the end of every game because it's deeply rooted in my brain and I don't even realise i do it. People just report you if they didn't like to play with you. This new system is ass
I don't approve the method of banning and making it reliant on reports mainly. But i hate baus playstyle. And hate people failing to do what he does in my games.
Baus play style is inherently selfish so the votes are a logical conclusion. 

Baus gets fed at the expense of feeding the enemy. This advantages Baus and disadvantages his teammates.  If he does it well, he solo carries. If he does it poorly, he solo loses. 

It’s a main character syndrome that’s entertaining to watch but absolutely selfish in a team game.
If Riot hates it so much they should 'fix' the playstyle and get their shit straight. Company is so incompetent it's crazy.
I got downvoted to oblivion last time I mentioned the automated ban system restricting/bannng you based on number of reports alone.     

I don’t know why it’s so hard for people to accept that it’s an automated system. If enough people falsely report someone, they can and will get restricted. Even if they’ve never even spoken in chat.       
This is amplified if a pre-made group all falsely reports you at once too.     

I’ve had chat muted for the past 5 years, yet I’ve still been chat restricted and honour reset 3 times from false reports in that time.     
A support ticket to riot clears it up each time and they apologise for the error, but it’s annoying to have to jump through hoops when doing nothing wrong.
I mean its been obvious for years they dont care to make the system fair.
Quit playing league people, china is just trying to make you useless.
I think this is a special case tho, how many people get reported as much as baus?
i got this same warning when i play with chat perma muted and only use pings for gameplay purposes.. i put in a ticket asking why and got an extremely chat-gpt-esque response saying its an automated action for being reported.. when i asked what i can do to avoid it happening again the GM said “don’t worry if you actually get penalized you can always appeal and get it overturned” lol….
riot fucks up league more and more each day. all they care about now are numbers. and they just told highlights channels to fuck off so they can post highlights themselves. what a dick move to the community that promoted your game
I don’t like Baus and think his play style should 100% be banned because of how it negatively affects your teammates. But, he shouldn’t be reported or banned for “abusing” chat when he literally does not type. The fact he is pretty much getting target reported and there’s nothing he can do about it is quite sad on riots part.
The system is already like this for years and years. Its even likely the chances of someone receiving a punishment is more likely if they are reported by a profile that holds a good "profile score" basically if your profile is flagged as 'clean' by the system in place and you don't mass/false report or report players without reason and also don't get reported much, don't afk/troll/flame etc. etc. 

IIRC they used to give notifications when your "profile score" would improve and what I remember was a time i was in this sweet spot would basically mean reporting anyone mildly annoying using chat the report 'value' would be higher coming from a 'clean' profile and would be considered more valued by the reporting system, therefore the reportded player was near certainly getting punishment (and I got quite a lot of report feedbacks during that time, even for normal/aram games which is crazy). But once you start seriously playing soloQ it's hard to keep a 'clean' profile and I rarely get feedback these days.

Also one other thing to note: If you request your profile data thru riot support, you can get the number of times you got reported and what for so Baus can probably find the amount of times he got reported if he wishes.
I got this warning as well. I dont talk much and definitely no flame. Honor 5 idk what is going on.
I had this too. Got chat restricted for 14 days like the 22nd of april (yes I know, my bad).

Imagine my reaction qhen I woke up like 4 days ago seeing this warning when I don't even have access to chat in the first place.

Made a ticket, got someone who said that they 'fully understand the challenge I am facing to accept the current situation'.

Now I just play without chat and hope I don't get mass reported lol
They hate his solo bolo swag :(
What's he doing?
This is Supercalifragilisticexpialidocious!
I got one of those too. Fuck it im just going to keep typing until i get banned
Don't blame them.
People have created scripts in the past which would automatically create hundreds of reports via the ticket system on the riot support website in a few seconds and this was very effective for instantly banning an account.
I am spamming pings like crazy, call people retards and ask how’s their cancer today, never had any warnings.
The thing is that him being Baus, will always find a way to reach out Riot and have justice due to its fame.

But what about your typical average player? Will Riot care to protect from such an abusive system?

Knowing it as the frigid corpo it became nowadays, I'd say no.
Yeah I got spam reported by a bunch of salty duos the other day and got chat restricted. But unlike normal, Riot wouldnt give me chat logs. Just says "I had frequent  reports" like what? They dont even understand their own community. Riots support sucks now.  I know for a fact I didnt say anything over PG-rated, but they 14 day'd me for saying virgin so lol. 



[https://imgur.com/KlojiHV](https://imgur.com/KlojiHV)
I always report every single one in the game before minion spawn since Riot went stupid and made mass reporting working.

They need to learn the hard way only real report should matter.
Wtf un 2024 riot still working on chat/ping related penalties?  That’s years the mute is in place. The only thing they have to focus on is the inter/griefer/afk. Not sure why they do nothing about it. Can’t be called an esport with that kind of ranked handling. I don’t know of a single team sport IRL where someone could grief the team and still be able to play
This happend for me today..recently i had tons of shitty games that let me go back to iron with 0 points. So its natural for me to use the report system riot made ! What sthe point of having tgis system when im not allowed to report players I hate riot for real !!
Same happened to me, got honor dropped because of spam report of people who didn't like how i play, pathetic sadly and they refused to remove it because their sistem works
exactly
That's crazy, give lux another skin and nerf k'sante again
Lmao I can't believe it took reddit this long to figure this out. I've been saying this for years because I had this happen and I was told I was lying even with chat logs provided.
Tbf, riot has banned people before for doing offmeta strategies that teammates doesnt like, even if the strats are solid and works. Ie, teemo support, nunu support, singed support etc.

I dont mean I agree with them doing this at all, just wanna make it clear riot has banned people for this since 2014 so this isnt anything new
Is this week's complain flavour of the week "nothing happens to inters when I report them", or "this one inter (that still plays to win) is getting penalised by reports"? We can't really have both, it's not realistic.

It makes more sense to have a system that bans based off of data, that can also be fairly appealed for the rare cases it's not warranted. That is exactly what we see here.
I got a chat ban and honor reset for chat abuse and hate speech because i said "even this old monkey can learn not to get baited" when refering to myself playing wukong (i was getting baited by neeko but outayed her).

Bans/restriction these days are just absurd and automated bans won't ever work.
Don't forget the constant reminders to snitch on other team mates after any game where someone is reported. I don't like playing with griefers but the culture Rito are trying to create feels dirty to me.
Yay!
Can't wait to see Riot implement the CS:GO feature where you could vote to kick from the server a player in your own team. #votekick
Well he is typing sometimes - But it is usually "Im better than you" :D
According to Riot, I got 95 AFK reports last season. I had exactly one game where I was AFK for 4 mins, and it was an ARAM. But teammates get tilted when you don't gank when they want or when you powerfarm.
I have been getting that on every log in and I don’t use chat I think it’s just bugged
he should be banned permanently. It's not a play style, he runs it the fuck down every game.
I got this same page as a person who is chat banned and quite literally unable to type in game. It must've been off "excessive pinging" LMAO
If you get permanent banned, you just create another account! Easy. Riot never learns, they have a bunch of teenagers that passed elementary school only working at their company.
NGL the new system is pretty ass! I got this warning even after a month of no typing (I removed my chat bar btw lol) and insta /mute all in everygame. I have noticed majority are 3-4 man premades so I assume they are just pissy because they cant be your boss and dictate your computer making you their slave. I feel like Riot is favoriting premades and banning all solos. Pretty ass and if it keeps up people will just move on to other games. This is the only game that is this stupidly strict. They act like 8 year olds cant just go on reddit or discord servers and shit talk and spam n words. ZZZZ
Dude runs it down every game and makes it hard for the rest of his team. Sure sometimes he solo wins pushing towers but nobody wants to face a 14-1 top laner cause you play int strat
I mean if your playstyle involves going 0/10 every game, prepare to get banned. especially with the 2024 baus that goes obviously troll things like ap irelia. 

baus does not have all those report problems when he climbs offstream playing tank sion without many deaths like a normal person. 

inting games for content and then overrulling bans because you are popular is what's bad, not your original statement
Well.

  
If dying to enemy laner and turret and leaving your team on a disavantage on gold and expirence for the whole game, without checking with 4 other people if that is remotly ok, making the game harder for them and making their experience quite miserable, while you get some youtube content and MAYBE win a game or two is not reportable.

than you guys should queue with him.
Absolutely hate playing with and against Baus. Idc if he is challenger, he makes the game so weird and unplayable for like 25min. You just pray he's not on an off day where he only ints and gets no pressure

Love Baus but 100% support perma banning this guy lmao
Oh no! The guy who's responsible for so many players who never group, int constantly, ignore pings and try to solo games is getting reported a lot. What a bloody shock! Almost as though people don't appreciate allies who play as though they don't have a team.
Idc what anyone says. Bad take incoming I get it. But this guy has been worse for league than Tyler1 ever has. I'd be glad if he got the tyler1 treatment for a year. He isn't making a new play style, he is trolling.
Okay but if theres so many people repoeting you, then maybe you are doing something that deserves to be penalized
While I completely agree with all your points, he is playing in a way that everyone hates, both teammates and enemies. And if everyone hates playing with you (exclusively gameplay wise) then there is something fundamentally wrong with what you're doing. Also he did in fact got some of his accounts permabanned. Then asked Riot to unban.
I mean if you are constantly getting reported (not saying for baus) you should be punished, the majority of people playing with you are reporting you….
Who would have thought this would happen when you troll 4 people in your team every game?

But my my my plastyle. Come on, your playstile can also be "dont like jungles Im going double top" and you will get reported, is what it is.

He should have been permad a lot ago, sad he is not.
Biggest loser in EUW. Hope he gets banned.
Well whats your solution
Well put. I tried to sum it up just saying ridikulas and I totally agree with you. I for one haven’t played in over 2 years and seeing bauss was what got me into the game again a couple months ago, for the most part I tune in to the pro games and watch bauss cause I don’t actually enjoy playing the game. Hope riot reworks the warning/ban system to allow bauss to do what he does - who knows who else will come up with a new or different way to play the game. 

Bauss is one of the few that plays it as a full map team game vs the generic streamers that either get support in their lanes or just complain, for anyone who watches him you’d know the name tag diff he experiences. While there are a bunch of people doing his play style without understanding it, it’s no different than other streamer or pro picks. (One that comes to mind is the adc Kiera brought onto support role)
Main sub is like hitler's germany, nothing negative amount game is allowed.
Well if you aren’t a streamer or person on public interest riot will tell you NOT to play in a way that ruins the game for your teammates.

Riot cares less about win/lose but rather how their players feel like. 

He is simply lucky to be a streamer, else he wouldn’t get u banned etc.


Imagine a gold player saying: I play as I want, for the win, even if 4 teammates don’t enjoy this style, you would get banned within 3-4 games.
Totalmente 💅 High Elo are just a bunch of meta slave pussys...

Also, can you report a player you didn't play with? Is he getting spam reported by people who aren't even in his games? Can that be the case?
😂😂😂😂😂😂😂😂😂
Yeah, for now. But these aren't a "errors" as you put it. This is the way they want system to work, it's just not calibrated yet. But regardless, their goal seems to be link number of reports  (even these false) to punishment.
I have also had this happen, but my ticket was met with automated responses and I gave up. gg riot
Think the joke is that junglers always take heat for team loss and probably receive the most of these "spite reports" or whatever you want to call them
It's not esports, and it's criticism of riot. Shot down on sight
Already tried, got took down in matter of 18 seconds. Didn't break TOS imo.

Fuck  
Facist  
Main League Reddit  
Admins
It gets deleted there
Can you tell me your account name? So i can report you for playing shaco
Reported
HOW DARE YOU!?
Ban Sion every game and dodge when they do it in your team, no?
His style relies on team being able to carry him. Who cares if he gets more gold, his top laner is still fed and able to go roam and murder people.

I despise anyone trying to copy him
Right but it shouldn't be bannable or reportable since he makes it to challenger playing like this so clearly it's a viable strategy. He is (usually) trying to win and that's evidenced in his rank
This is for communication abuse tho. He doesn't type in chat or ping in a toxic manner, yet the explanation for his punishment is given as comms abuse. That's what the OP is highlighting
That’s a fair way to look at it, but it’s in no way bannable.
soloQ requires selfish play a lot
I'm sorry but you have a very bad interpretation of his playstyle.
Happy Cake day
me, i even linked same case study on my account

Yesterday they admited "warnings should be related to things i;ve written on chat" so they cannot explain what happend with the warning on my acc
It's not a special case. They have this same system in overwatch and I report people there for verbal and I get report feedbacks saying they've been banned all the time. I have comms completely turned off. I just report if they play bad lol
Nothing, people just spam report him when they see him in their games. He never types or says anything toxic.
He has a very aggressive objective taking play style that doesn’t care if he feeds as long as he get objectives and wins. I’m the strategy can work, but at the cost of feeding kills to the enemy team and making it more difficult for the rest of your team. Baus is pretty good at it. Two things make it kind of shitty. It’s very main character syndrome “I will carry or we will lose” play style. Another reason a lot of people hate it is because you get copy cats that are terrible at the game and just feed without getting any objectives. Most people complaining on here about him are 1000x below his ELO and will never be in a match with him. But the copy cats who don’t understand what they are doing can make a game go really bad.
Bro, you can't fix crazy, but you can JOIN crazy.  
Always report everyone in your game for chat abuse too.  
If everyone does it. Riot will understand their mistakes.
Reminds me of something I saw in eastern europe time ago as part of some twisted understanding of communism where reporting your neighbors was actually a good citizen thing to do as if he is doing something irregular against the system, he is doing it to you and to your closed ones, as the system is all of you (but not that “criminal” neighbor).

Not nice to have people fear each other :/
I think you should be becouse my believe is the way you are playing is not a play style but inting as well.

Should you be banned becouse i think something about you?
Tell me you're fucking stupid without telling me you're fucking stupid.
True. If people are reporting you every game you should be punished.
If baus wasn’t 4-5 ranked divisions above you this comment might hold some weight. As it stands, I’m not sure your hardstuck gold opinion is probably not gonna sway this discussion very much.
"maybe win a game or two" the dude is fucking challenger lmao, are you seriously complaining about wins in a competetive queue? hes not trying to have fun, hes trying to win.
you just need to outrank him and then you won’t ever play against him again. Which should be pretty easy since he‘s inting. btw I never played against him either since I’m gold but I 100% support banning him too
Yeah. I understand that his playstyle works. To be honest, it's a losing scenario. Riot won't remove that style of play because the measures they would need to take will end up hurting the ability for ALL players to make comebacks in the game. That means they risk losing players, which means losing revenue. However, with that said, Baus' style has legitimately led to an overwhelming number of players trying to copy him. None of them are getting even a fraction of the results Baus does. Nobody likes that style - other than the player doing it. It's not the way the game was meant to be played.
thats like blaming gumayusi for people failing with kalista because he locked it😂
he's winning games*
But it isn't against the rules what he does. He found a way to play the game. If people dislike it, its Thei problem. Not bausffs
If anything, the only problem with Baus is that he have copycat followers that try to do the same thing but end up just being actual dirty inters.

I don't see problem  with Baus himself. Riot is doggy company, period
I’d love for him to be on my team. An actual useful non kda player creating pressure I can capitalize on.
There’s nothing fundamentally wrong with what he’s doing. If you go like 7/5 in lane is there something wrong with that? Because that is essentially what he’s doing except instead of kills, he’s getting a higher proportion of his gold from CS and tower plates (and also manipulating the bounty system).

If I play a scaling pick I generally want to farm and scale safely and methodically but then if everyone else plays super aggro so all lanes are accelerated but mine, it ruins the game for me and I hate that. That doesn’t mean I report them or that they should be banned from the game.
Maybe ask devs the fix the unfair bounty system instead ban people who abuse it.
They know its flawed for years now and dont do anything about it.
They hate you because you speak the truth.
Yes, the punishment should rely on opinion of some group, surely that finished well for certain minority between 33' and 45'

Oh wait...

Quite hiperbolised, but you get the point.
being challenger makes you a loser, LoL player opinions🔥🔥
Revert the change duh. What kinda question is this?
It's so true. Years ago I had an account locked for "suspicious activity". While talking with support they verified it was not cheating, someone hacked into my account. So they needed to verify my ownership of the account. I gave them all the sign up data, IP location for creation etc etc, signed into my email associated, even gave them CREDIT CARD info that was used to purchase stuff on the account. They refused to unlock my account. 

Why? Because I couldn't name the first 3 champs I bought in order 3 years ago. That account is still locked to this day. When I tried to tell my story about it on the main reddit, got perma banned LOL.

Never spent a dime on this dogshit company ever again after this experience.
You've never actually read any topic on that sub have you?
Getting dowvoted for saying something like this gota be peak reddit.XD
If you have a winning rate with that strategy and you are climbing. Why would I feel that way? You can play how you want without being a negative to the team…. The issue is, league intentionally cultivates such a negative vibe that people cannot see past anything that doesn’t line with their linearity. They cannot possibly fathom, that just maybe. This person can run their style, effectively. More so when 90% of us aren’t making any earnings from the game. Anyways, arenas is out so far 5v5 until then.
As a higher elo player i can relate
I might be wrong and I'm too lazy to check. But I think it might be possible to view his match history and report him there.
I feel like the problem is, in most cases, this system makes sense.

For every 1 Baus there are 1000 toxic players that mask their toxicity well using uncommon wording or pings. Yes it sucks whenever the 1 Baus gets a penalty, but as long as it gets resolved quickly, I think it's not too bad.

It's a double edged sword.
Yeah, they're ego powered to hell with who posts what.
Yeah I also fucking hate that sub, having a bunch of uneducated babies run a sub is never a good idea
Wait what did they do that was racist?
You can’t find me, Q abuser
Yesterday I played shaco and despite playing well and being 6/2/5 at the time it happened, my 2/8 midlaner started flaming me in all chat saying I am the reason we are losing and "when does shaco get useful?"

I was the only one capable of killing the laners he fed.

Shaco players can't catch a breath fr.
They do it on other champions too. It will be too many dodges and bans.
This, he relies on his team not losing to his opponent. Imagine his mid doing the same, he would be so mad.
Yes, man has a positive winrate doing this. It's working, blame the game not the player, he's using a viable strategy and people are upset at him for it. It does make the game less fun for others but thats not his problem is it? You picked the competitive queue and are now angry someone is playing competetivly.
Then don’t ban any unconventional Strat. If I want to go toplane yuumi, or support the midlane, why is that bannable? ( as long as i try to win )
In principle yes, but give four others the freedom to vote and they will vote against selfishness in a team game.  I don’t see a viable solution that includes allowing 4 teamates to vote…

An unrealistic solution would be some kind of Ai to analyse games and determine if the votes are legitimate or not, but this sounds expensive.
Totally should ? 

Dude solo decides to run it down, calls it a strategy and if he loses it just did not work out ? 

a 4 other people just lost 35 or more minutes playing a ranked game, trying to win for this ?

  
If wants to do it in normals it's totally fine, but that does not give him youtube and [twitch.tv](http://twitch.tv) views.
Yes the reports are unjustified. I was explaining why he probably attracts a lot of reports.
Inting is a bannable offence and pretty much every other game baus ints. And I'm not talking strategic inting. I'm talking straight up inting.
True, hence the votes
Ay yeah the hate on widow genji mains and the reports that made them banned.
Truly game of the year original ow
People like you are the reason we can’t have nice things.
My man this is league of legends not overwatch
What an appropriate name. You seem like the sort of person that could make even conservatives appreciate abortion access.
You prolly report people in OW being better than you lmao
Well something must he doing for the spam reports.
Or did it just become a meme for no reason?
Oh its the inting Sion inventor?
But isn't he toplane?
you need urgent help
whoa buddy have you heard being a cringe fanboy is out of fashion
Yeah bro, you should play with him. and record your reaction when a fed Darius that he fed on purporse doing a quadra kill.
1- Gumaysui is a pro player who DOES play with his teammates.

2- I've seen enough inting Sions to last a lifetime, and this guy is 100% the reason why.

3- I'd rather lose with a bad ADC who at least tries to play with the team than win with a Top laner who doesn't communicate or coordinate. 

It is a team game. If you suck at teamwork then get better at it, don't copy some YouTuber who's playstyle was designed to be entertaining for viewers over being efficient.
Because the rest of his team is playing the way he wants. He forces them too or they have to lose. Making 4 people play that dog shit play style for 40 minutes is stupid.
He can do what he does while dying less, it's pretty inexcusable if you watch some of the games. When he tries, he's really good, but a lot of the time he's just for funning and quite literally inting games away.
Well, it's not as simple, because it can be seen as griefing the game, which is absolutely against the rules (obviously not communication abuse). But if you see some random name ap irelia on top going 0-13  in the first 10 minutes of the game dying at tier 3 tower I honestly can't blame people for thinking they are being griefed. Sure keep your petty downvoting.
>I don't see problem with Baus himself. Riot is doggy company, period

this is because you dont have to be his teammate every day
Another problem with copycats is Baus’s technique often rely on his teammates playing their roles correctly.

You’re just not going to get that at emerald and below.
Yeh, their logic is the same as "I don't wanna play with a scaler because they're farming under their tower instead of getting prio for me" If it works it works.
I get that people don't care about reading posts and just want to rebuke everything about their favorite streamer, but I never said that what he is doing is wrong nor implied such.

First, fundamentally wrong about the game, not his gameplay. For example, it's possible to make creeps ignore champions before they reach the farthest standing tower. This alone will make his (and any singed) gameplay more streamlined. 

Second, Im talking about exclusively perception of people. If you feel that someone is ruining your game it's not only your problem, but the game itself, Baus as the source and a victim, and more importantly Riot as a service provider.
Redditors proceeding to blame people for reporting Baus while doing the same with mass downvoting people they disagree with. The irony is immeasurable.
Hope he sees this and lets you smash, bro. Surprised you can type with all that cock in your mouth
Whats the change? I don't know, wasnt it always like this? When you get reported a lot, automatic action happens no?
Talking about any actual game issue results in post being removed. When entering that sub you must accept that riot is perfect and flawless, you are there to engage with community about the game, not point out issues with game. Say what? Where do you point out game issues? Haha you don't, go buy lux skin.
Let’s think for a second…. If they got banned for posting their negative experience. If they got BANNED from the subreddit for their negative experience. Again, BANNED. Why would they go and read a topic?
Noone ever just gets an upvote here, 1 downvote always comes first
Someone once made a good point about the baus and his Strat. 

Yes he gains a total gold advantage, if you take a look at teamgold, but also he does give the enemy top a gold advantage in comparison to other players in his team, so the team might gehts a small lead, but the individual is behind in items. 

So you are absolutely right, everyone should be able to play as they want, but you can’t make exceptions for specific people. 

You get banned if you play your support in top, or if you play something like urgot support. 

Yes I am aware that those aren’t viable strata, yet if you promote „play as you want“ then you have to allow it to everyone, including breaking the set 1:1:1:2 meta. 

Or you punish everyone the same way.
You have to have played with the person less than 4 days ago, I’m sure it was this at some point but might have been changed
for what it's worth.

There are a LOT of players out there that use uncommon or undesirable strategies.

From the support position, I have had bot players rage quit on me from a strongly winning position because their character had to "take the L" for the jungler or mid lane being fed.

The key is there are a lot of possible "gambit" play styles meaning that one person on the team has to take an L so that another gets overly ahead. And I can say with certainty that at times doing this as a strategy is correct. 

the proof that this is true is the jungle item's "anti poaching" mod on both lane minions and jungle camps. We've had a bunch of times in the game where the junlger taking the lane farm AND the kills was a positive thing to do, in terms of what wins games: but top laners (and mid laners and bot laners) cry to high heavens if this happens.

what im trying to say is that a lot of times this isn't toxicity per se, rather it's a play style (that works) that you really don't like seeing in your team mate (because it forces you to be behind while the team wins).
He misspelled fascist, not that it's much more accurate
They are mods
I’ve been perma banning shaco for over 5 years. Literally the bane of my existence. I refuse to ban any other champ.
Fair enough but at least you have some degree of way out.

Try to find a way out of false reports, lol
He would. He always says he’s not getting carried *but he is*.
Unconventional strats aren't banned. Drututt played Yuumi top lane and wasn't banned. Roaming supports have always been a thing I league.
Or just you know, don't randomly ban people based on their teammates opinions. Especially if they're playing an unconventional champ like singed or sion
Clearly it is a "strategy" since he makes it to challenger every season lol
Where do you draw the line tho?

Is proxy singed okay?

Is roaming bard or Janna top okay that abandon their turret?

Varus top so your team has no frontline?

Some of these starts are good, some so op they got nerfed. If you start banning everything that isn't meta the game gets pretty boring.
It’s not inting though. He clearly tries to win.

If you pick an assassin into a control mage, could you be banned for that? Clearly you are making the game harder for your team if the control mage player just plays safe and scales.

If you pick your main into a bad matchup. Should you be banned?

If you play Lux support, despite her clearly being a low winrate pick. Is that inting?

If you go for a risky gank as a jungler, which can turn the game around but you fail, are you inting?
no its not intentional feeding. its intentionally dying to get a tempo/cs lead. you have to understand the difference if you want to be part of the conversation about baus
People just don’t like his playstyle. I think it’s mostly because it causes lower elo players to try and replicate it, but they aren’t nearly good enough to pull it off like he does so they just end up feeding.
His playstyle, while usually ending up like 2-3k gold above the enemy out of laning, even if he is 0/7, also means 7 kills are going to the enemy. 

Solo queue is usually selfish as many high elo players do focus on the, “The only person I can trust is myself” mentality and Bauss takes it to the extreme. This usually ends up with Bauss beating the enemy team with a large sack of gold, but it is not foolproof.

He makes up for it with his pressure based playstyle. If the enemy team leaves him alone, he is at their nexus by 25. As such, they need someone to match him. And most of the time they need 2, since Sion scales so hard with CS (which he will legit die to ensure 10 cs/min) he can hit 4-5k hp in 20 minutes. This means that the game can say he is 3-4k gold ahead, but in reality, he has gotten another 1.6k hp from his passive alone. So if the strat is done right, it doesn’t matter if he gave those 7 kills early. The enemy players who benefited (Top and Jung) will have to waste their time fighting someone who still has more stats than them, so the rest of the team only has to deal with the other 3 players. 

Now, this is a frustrating thing to play with and against. People hate feeling helpless and this playstyle can make both his enemies and allies feel this way. His teammates will get frustrated if the 7/0 Darius decides he doesn’t wanna match the Sion (which is a bad idea since he is the only one who can) and joins a teamfight to quadra Bauss’ team. And remember when I say that EVERYONE has main character syndrome? Even if Bauss gets 3 turrets and an inhib with that decision, his team will still get annoyed.

Not to mention that Bauss is successful since he pilots this well. His macro and tbh his micro a d use of FoW makes him very good. He got rank 1 in Korea for a reason and even after Riot nerfed his strats, he still gets Challenger every year. It’s just that he has copycats. Like all those fanboys who see Keria and Guma using Kalista support without knowing why, Sions that cannot manage his macro decisions or even get 10 cs/min are just straight inting it trying to copy him.
Other comments have noted that this system will most likely affect jungle players heaviest as they are most often blamed for a teams loss
Not at all. Your opinion being invalid due to your lack of understanding had nothing to do with anyone or anything else. You’re just bad, so you don’t have much of value to offer. Not sure where you’re pulling that nonsense line from, I recommend you read more books.
and id be okay, because he'd be taking 2 turrets and an inhib in the meanwhile. dont just die to the darius, waste his team. its easy to play around, youre just not good enough to adjust your playstyle to fit what your team needs so you cry that its too different from your cookie cutter playstyle
just because guma plays with the team doesnt mean every kalista player copying him will😂 youre seriously saying you should ban a dude because theres cheap copycats of him out there. the dude has gotten to his rank winning his games fair and square, who gives a fuck what strat he uses to get there.
So youre just mad that you cant adjust to what your team needs? That's why you're at your rank. Not every game is the same cookie cutter game
So are most players. 


It's not against the rules to not try your best every game, otherwise everyone would be banned.


It's a game, if I want to test a new build on my champ, even if it's not optimal, I can.
It's crazy how obsessed people are with this "deaths" metric in this game. You can be a literal pro player, challenger/GM rank and people will still say "hmm not good enough! You can do what you do while dying less! 🤓"
So he’s playing a game? For fun? The audacity!
kDa is a worthless metric. What needs to be look at is the gold graph. And I don't think he's griefing if you look at the gold/min he has. But yeah I guess he has some shit games like the rest of us
How are you this dense
But he's winning. He shows in his videos, he might be 0-14 but he is still applying pressure in the top lane, and if the enemy team don't react they will lose a turret, if they react to him, it's a free dragon or bot/mid turret, or at least the enemy team won't have their top lane for the objectives. Also he can get his itens he doesn't get behind.
Say what you will, but it's working, and there's a logic behind it.
Just because some people dont like it doesnt mean it needs to be fixed.
Downvoting doesn't get you banned
silver says what?
Reports were good for nothing if you had not violated any rules. Now, you will be punished for accruing large volumes of reports, even if you have not broken any rules. People who play with chat disabled are getting warnings for abusing chat, it's disgusting.
You're joking right? The league of legends sub is one of the most negative subs on this site, they have a meltdown every time anything new happens.
You can still read a sub if you're banned from it. But I'm completely certain he didn't get banned just for posting a negative experience one time. Even those shitty mods aren't that trigger happy
Sadly its not  just leage main subreddit pretty much every and all  video game main subreddit i had the  chance to  experience is being moderated by these  brainwashed white knight neckbeard virgin mods doing  a  work that even a  sweatshop worker would not do, FOR FREEE.
Even if he is on your team?
It's not 1 or 2 games where he gets reported. He is reported almost every game he loses (because league players will use him as an excuse) and maybe sometimes even when they win.

How can the ban system recognize that the 0 8 sion is cooking some 12 CS per min to carry the game afterwards? He got banned in korea because of something similar.

I don't envy the teammates who play with him or the ban system who doesn't know how to treat this type of gameplay.
Only works in soloque. Yeah
See that’s the point. You can get banned, unless you are a person of interest
Your denying human nature.  People will vote report based on feelings…. Doesn’t make it right, it just is what it is.
You’re going to end up with a ton of people who should get banned not being if you go that direction.  There is no way to determine a legitimate report from “just an opinion” without a human reviewing every single game.
He is not making to challenger because of that strategy.

His teammates are carrying his backpacking ass, and dude has clear know how of pro level macro
Its not about being meta, proxy singed does not require you to die to the enemy.

You actually sacrifice to the turret, and its a very niche strategy that is required to play singed.

Varus top is a champ selection thing, you can either request your team to have a tank jungler and support if that is the case.


What he does is not meta, is legit telling people that he will be afk perma push and they can deal with the gold deficit and uber fed toplaner or whatever
Im getting downvoted to oblivion for pointing out the first thing on his warning.

Compete to win TOGHETER.

Dude legit runs it down and lets 4 other players deal with the aftermath. 


Once again. If you guys like it so much i can only wish you have a player like him on all your matches ❤️
I WATCH HIS STREAM OFTEN AND HE LEGIT INTS OFTEN NOT STRATEGIC INTING OR FUCKING UP IN DRAFT HE FUCKING INTS SOMETIMES IT IS WHAT IT IS.
Literally anyone can do that in your ranked games and most of the time, people would go apeshit if they had any "baus enjoyer" as their teammate. They'd demand reports, bans and if it were up to them, public lynching. If you accused them of inting, they'd say "it usually works" but when it doesn't, it looks bad.

Being "a name" doesn't give baus ANY more credibility or extended parole over inting ass. People have long learnt to play against him, and regardless of winning or losing, his playstyle is inherently annoying for his teammates. He can pretty much solo carry an impossible game (partially because of the way he plays) or solo rundown the game (mostly because of his plastyle).

I do disagree with chat abuse warnings over mere unrelated report spam, but I can't really blame people for not enjoying playing with him or even fake reporting.
Yeah I'm not talking about strategic inting. Watch his stream enough and you'll realize he's actually inting half of games. As soon as his mental is gone it's full on inting. Which is what I just said in my comment above.
Yeah figured I know that guy.
I am just confused because this is rather specific toplane gameplay + he gets reports outside of games.
Sure it's always jungle diff but that's still different than to have 10 people per game report you. (yes it's intended to be an higher avarage than possible)
Well it is jungler fault but I would imagine that people report him even outside of direct games.
"just don't die to the darius".



HAHAHAHAHHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHHAHA.
No, I certainly can. It's that the idiots who aren't the baus, trying to be the baus, can't play that way and just ruin the game, and he himself forces people in his elo to play that awful play style.
...what's wrong with having an opinion on something exactly? Being a lower rank or less skilled at something doesn't mean you can't spot mistakes or have an informed opinion.

And dying means more than just a number - it's not so much the metric, but that he could accrue advantages with less risk and in a way that doesn't harm his teammates or his chance to win the game nor influence others to do the same, but without the know-how behind it so they just straight ruin games. Don't get me wrong, it's creative and it's abusing a poorly implemented system and that's awesome (except for when it's lane swaps or funnel strategies or mages in the jungle (xd League players are dumb)) - but it's not *always* the best thing to do when he does it. You do realise there's been times where he has  35-45% winrates over hundreds of games, right? As I said in my original comment, when he tries, he's really good... But it's pretty evident he just for-funs it for stream(or whatever else) a lot and that's probably not okay in a ranked competitive setting. There's reasons why his accounts have been banned before and I am pretty sure if he didn't have an audience he wouldn't have been unbanned as Riot don't tend to look at context and even if they did, I think they would still deem it as problematic (a lot of the time). What can you do, though? It's a public ranked ladder after all and those tend to be shit in quality.
I think you completely misunderstand what for funning means in this context... not to mention that this is a competitive game. You can play for fun as there's nothing wrong with that, but do it in the gamemodes that are there to cater to more casual play so that you're not taking away from the experience of others. The questions I raise to people who say this is that if you don't get fun out of trying hard/improving/learning/etc(you know... what it actually means to be fulfilled within a competitive game), why are you playing a competitive game at all? Why not play something that caters to what you want or at least in gamemodes there for it? Why do you have to take it to a place where you begin to harm others with it (or in this case, defend those that are?)

Now what Baus does is creative and abusing a poorly implemented system. It's awesome, creativity should be rewarded and when he is trying he makes it really effective. The problem, however, is that a lot of the time he doesn't try that hard and is just for-funning for his stream or whatever else, which as said before, is ruining the experiences of others because it's a competitive setting, which is probably not okay to do. If you think it's okay to do, that's fine, but it makes you a bit of a dick IMO.
Much better than you. Stick to geometry dash, Baus cuck.
Well lets look at positives and negatives. I'm assuming previously, reported players got manually checked by admins, resulting in slow report responses. It makes sense to make this automatic, that would save on manpower and time. The negatives are more popular/famous people like this guy (I'm assuming he's a streamer?) get a lot of fake reports. For me, I think positives outweigh the negatives because this is going to happen to a limited few amount of people in the grand scheme of things, whereas exclusively manual ban control would slow things down and essentially make flaming and swearing basically allowed for everyone practically. In my opinion, it is a good change, but a quick nanual ban appeal system could work here.
There was no change, it has already been like this for years, their report system IS fully automated, the only "new" thing is that pop up showing where before if you got spam reported you'd just get banned without warning.
And mods delete it instantly, or if it's a comment on hot post then it gets removed when it gets few upvotes
You get a lot of posts deleted, especially if you talk about Reddit mods or anything related to a bug/ balance etc. really depends on how you phrase it though.
Again. I said “why” I didn’t say you could, I said “Why” would he.
Unless he’s first pic, absolutely. I also main jungle, so not many times Ive got one on my team.
Well he gets ahead, and while he has the most gold, his enemy laner has more gold than anyone on the Baus team, thus causing them to lose to the enemy. 

One guy once said: the problem is not the Strat, but that he uses it on every teamcomp. Even if his team would need a conventional toplane
And that's exactly why riot shouldn't send out warnings and bans based on those reports you just proved my point
Which is what I said.  If you allow people to report then they will probably abuse the privilege when they get emotional.
You are actually saying someone is getting carried to challenger season after season? Are you really really really that delusional?
no one makes it to challenger by being "backpacked" by your teammates, the strategy is clearly viable in the hands of someone whose good at it like him
Honestly the problem is that Riot would even design a champion that get's pretty majorly rewarded for dying. It incentivizes this type of selfish playstyle, so you can't really put 100% of the blame on Bauss. I absolutely despise mechanics that last after death and therefor reward dying, like Sion, Shaco's boxes and clone, Illaio's ult and random tentacle spawns that will chase you to your base lol. 

Shit is just ridiculous. Enough stuff to worry about in this game than to have to worry about the person you just killed killing you back 5 seconds later with a stupid box or plant or something.
A teammate who dies with a huge bounty is more inting then baus
Agreed. When he's actually trying and playing the int Sion strategy, it's fine because he's still gaining more resources than the enemy. When he's not trying or playing AP Irelia, then he fully deserves to get reported.
Most players are like that. If the cards are stacked against them, they start playing worse.

It’s just not as visible because most will play overly passive and lose the game slowly, which is the exact opposite of what you should do most of the time from behind.
yea you got a silver level reading comprehension too, all makes sense now
So you're blaming boss for the fact that people copy him? Ig we should ban guma for running kalista because of the low elo copies that int with her because of him🤷‍♂️ and people in higher elos dont give a fuck because it still results in a win, and they have the brain capacity to adjust their playstyle for one game. the only ones that complain are silvers like you that wont ever even be in a game with the dude.
no youre not. youre silver. stop lying to yourself. look through my post history some more bozo, definitely makes you look right
can confirm, even when clash dies because riot after all these years still didn’t do shit about it, if I ask what happened, my post and comments all get removed within minutes of posting it
Typically if you're gonna talk about how a sub behaves and the kind of topic posted there one might assume you'd at least looked to see if it was actually true or not
It’s almost like you think I’m arguing with you.  I’m not a fan of automated ban systems, never stated that.  I just stated the obvious about human nature and emotional reporting.
No im saying he does not use it every single game.

Also, maybe if you like it so much play with him. I can assure you that is totally not tilting for the rest of the 4 players
Ok, let's just use the same thing but with Kog´Maw then. his passive to be used he has to die.

Sion it's not rewarded for dying, he gets to clear the wave. that is it.

Dude is legit running it down, champion or not. dude is legit running it down.
You mean Keria, and no. Kalista support works in situations and it's entire theme isn't based around dying and feeding. The Baus is. I absolutely blame Baus for the troglodytes that get into people game trying to do this shit only to completely ruin a game. It's not even a close comparison.
*There is no war in ba sing se*
Which could have easily been done…. Prior to being banned. So once again, why go back from some place that you had a negative experience at the other times? I’m trying to ask you where the sense in that is….
And in the ones he does he has a positive win rate in challenger right? Or do you imagine he just loses all these games and than wins only games where he plays differently. 

I can understand it's tilting, but being tilting should not be a report -> auto warning  situation, since than I could also claim please don't let someone offrole in a role he has a sub 50wr and report them for it

Or even simpler report people for playing singed or yasuo since one has a weird style in proxy and the other is a 0/10 power spike champ
Yes but with his passive and ult he loses essentially no time in lane. It's impossible to keep that dude out of lane lol, thats why he is so annoying to fight. he can go 0-15 but he's an absolute split pushing monster and can still win the game with that stupid strat sometimes. It is a very frustrating way to play, I agree.

No champ loses less for dying than Sion is all I was trying to say really.
theres no point in arguing with you, bye silver soyboy👍
And I'm trying to say he's wrong. It was rhetorical more than anything
But in the end of the day, it's a horrible experience and it's not a game that anyone wants to be on.

you have no agency, you can't make calls, you are playing with less 1 man the whole game.

Gives no regard of his team opinions or options.

  
totally reportable, he should play Single-player games.
If that's the hill you want to die on, while hes not the only person saying it. Be my guest.
I am definitely not arguing with you. I hate that shit just as much as you do. But really, it's Riot that allows it to be possible. Because for some reason they find 1 person ruining 9 other people's free time and experience in their game because of the way they intentionally play badly or sabotage or troll their team to not be a problem at all. But saying "ah man fuck that sucks" not even directed to anyone will get you a chat ban. 

Like, if you can't handle an f word dont play online pvp games or turn the profanity filter on. But they'll just let people ruin 50 games in a row through inting and not do anything about it, BECAUSE THEY DON'T ACTUALLY CARE ABOUT OUR EXPERIENCE PLAYING THEIR GAME, even though they try to claim they do.
Actual huge grub change
Isnt that like actually huge? Taking grubs will be MUCH faster now unless you basically only do aoe dmg.
I pointed this out to some mates today who didn’t seem to think it was that big. But this would make the grubs so different. Obviously it depends on how much the heal is, but this change could make them so much easier to kill
Also the HP number for smiting will be correct. I had so many situations where the grub was at 500 something HP plus a shield and my opponent or I missed the Smite

Edit: typo
I really like this change as a WW player. The shield mechanic encouraged a weird way of killing them where you try to get them all low before finishing one so you get the W attack speed bonus to deal with the shield. Much simpler now to just focus one at a time.
Well fuck, as a fiddle player this just sucks now :P
Strange they've positioned this as just a change to encourage top lane - when what it does most of all is buff single-target jungle champs to be far better at taking them. Lillia, Hecarim, Fiddle, and the like will have a harder time out competing a lot of those single-target jungle champs...
The only difference is that you can actually see how much hp it has left so you can smite easier from what I understand
This turns aoe damage dealers into the worst clearers when they previously the best
After this patch: Take the first grub and leave the others as a bait, rotate and take drag. STONKS!!!
As a nocturne main this does not change much
It'll be faster for pure single-target champs. If you have enough AOE to normally do as much damage as the shield then it'll be similar time. (Ex: Volibear is mostly single-target, but enough AOE that it's worth grouping them.)

Less reason to group up the grubs at the entrance to get AOEs off on all three as well since the damage won't stick.
It's gonna be easier to kill grubs for champions that deal single target damage assuming it doesn't over heal
And slightly slower for champions that deal aoe and maybe champions with missing health damage as will
Yall need to play rumble with berserker greaves in jungle, he melts the grubs so fast with his overheat its ridiculous trust me
They couldn't set the shield hp to show so we got this
People thinking this is a buff for jungle lol.. first, it's only a buff for noobs, good junglers get all of them low, kill one, and smite or burst the 2nd. The shields do not stack so the 3rd grub didn't actually get a new shield. This would let you kill all 3 together in about 5 seconds. 

Secondly, and more important, while adcs get tons of damage buff and still cry, people in this sub settle for "buffs" like this or aoe smite for little monsters. 

Buff jungle exp, revert smite damage nerf, make kill timers longer so we can punish, and remove those bs grubs that are basically just laners buff and give us back the old herald that actually did tower damage and we could take plates with.
People also don't realize it's faster to kill them one at a time then AOE them all down due to the shields having % missing health mechanics.
S14 shaco buffs just don't stop
Briar can deal pretty well with both, I preferred the shield, I'd group up the voidgrubs in the entrance and hit them all with W's auto attack AOE
singed jg
Single target junglers were definitely at a disadvantage against grubs

Hard to say if it is a buff/nerf to aoe junglers, would have to see how big the heal is
good thing they made rell not destroy their shields anymore, now it doesnt matter
They are easy as hell even now especially when you play champ that does AOE. Fiddle, Lilia, even pantheon take grubs in matter of seconds.
I'm going to assume that this is more a QOL thing than a massive change though I may stand corrected, and that the heal amount will roughly correspond to the shield, but it will be far more clear to smite.
Easier to smite that’s for sure. Nothing more of a piss off to smite only to get out smited because you don’t know how much shielding is on them
Any kind soul mind explaining why this is such a big change? No flame I’m actually asking cause I’m a little confused

Let’s assume the heal is the exact same as the shield size, just to make things easier. I would imagine this makes it harder to clear for single target dealers? What am I missing??
huge L for zed jungle
Wouldn't that be a shadow nerf to champs who can remove shields, I can't remember any other than Blitz R, but I know for a fact there's others
As Elise shaco main thank god. I literally leave 1 behind most of the time cuz it just takes wayy to long to kill all 3 especially on second spawn.
This feels very similar to when they changed Scuttle to not have a shield as a Lillia/WW main. I’m p sure I will welcome the change.
Karthus nerf
> Taking grubs will be MUCH faster now unless you basically only do aoe dmg.

FUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUCK.

Depending on how this plays out, it might be the straw that broke the camel's back;  I will quit the tank class as a whole and return to assassin. Goddamnit preak..... just when I think he couldn't foul up the game even worse he shows up with a shovel and starts digging.  This was one of the last natural advantages that tanks had in JG, something that they had over others that slightly compensated for what everyone else had. RIP gg.
Am new to JG playing just for less than 2 months and i can't really tell the difference. They get more health one way and another? What's the difference?
Sad day as a warwick main
If smite went through the shield as with old scuttles it would have made sense for it to be a shield, but like it is right now... just no.
So if you kill them at the same time will they all die or will they heal back up?
This feels pretty good for belveth
As a lillia main I don’t see how this changes anything
I’ve only fought them as fiora in urf (after I get hydra) but the shield was annoying af
i think its better for a single target damage champion to get grubs while being a little bit worse for AOE champ maybe better if they can kill it fast enough before it heals.
Brand grubs clear is gonna be much better now 🔥
Yorick jgl here we don’t give a fk
As a Warwick main, this is really sad.
some retard at riot probably tried to smite the shield and lost a grub cause for SOME FUCKING REASON the shield just does not show as hp for smite so you cannot predict at all how much hp is left
Silver, Bronze and Iron players: "Ok! I'll buy Executioner's Calling or Oblivion Orb and do this shit. Fuck you Riot!"
As a fiddlesticks player, this is terrible. The w’s missing health damage and probabaly nearly doubles the clear speed of this camp.
RIP Rell jungle.
Super glad to see this. The shield felt like a really difficult mechanic to accurately estimate smite around.
Rell jungle is crying right now
Time to play heca and clear grubs in 10 seconds
i need to know how much the heal is. As a briar main, i always pull them together so i can splash my autos, its the only way i can do them at any decent speed. Could be absolutely devastating if they do more than the shield
Poor Rell...
The champion that will suffer from this is Rell, one of the reasons she is a good jungler this season is how easy that champion takes grus by breaking their shields
rip rell lol
Does a shield function differently from hp? I thought they were pretty much the same thing
I dont see how this nakes a difference, other than champs that do %max hp dmg or have some shield remove mechanic. Can someone explain?
Rell is no longer S+++ tier for grubs
Rell and Renekton are crying
Currently a comment thats basically "literally no difference lol" has more upvotes then my post which i dont understand tbh lol.

As a rengar main this is huge since it will be so much faster to finish them off one by one.
This is sad, huge nerf to Rell jungle :(
Tbh the only difference is champs with % missing hp and % current dmg hp will see their clear either slowed or sped depending on what type since they removed any shield breaking abilities from dealing with grubs shield.

I say that because unless they change the amount getting 30% missing hp as a shield or as hp is irrelevant apart form what I said.
It's a huge nerf to WW because his passive procs on them below half health, so the shielding kept it active but this change will make them even slower.
This instantly buffs fiddle, w spam will now kill al of them
Did not help at all that the shield didn't show ticks for how much hp it had making it nearly impossible to tell.
Exactly!
Man how much I hate that shield, why not add it to the HP bad, you have to guess if you have time to check the top left of your screen. (Does it even shows there?)
I liked this way for some reason. You are building Tiamat anyways, so now it’s aoe damage would be kinda wasted. But killing grubs one at a time is probably safer in case of potential enemy intervention.
Unless the heal is greater than the shield. Will the not effect you. Apart from making other junglers do them faster?
Wait a minute ... As a Fiddle player ... The suck is a good thing. 🤔😂
Well no, their HP will also be capped at their max so when you kill one grub you will not have to work through the shield first which safes time for each grub after the first one.

Edit: provided you deal primarily single target dmg
Not really. The shield was still a pain in the ass even for AoE clears
AoE is still the same. It was rare you could kill two+ grubs at the exact same moment.

But it does even the playing field for single target clears, which nullifies the major advantage that champs like Brand held on Grubs.
Not if they have burst. Lilia hold w + smite for the remaining two then w + smite when you get them all low from Q.
May aswell take 2 and leave 1 as bait. Especially now that taking 2 wont even be that long either.
Good look at what happened when they added and took off the scuttle shield how much faster the clear for it became the same thing will happen with grubs
It’s a huge nerf
This is just dumb. AOE is always better since its not like they get to full hp again...
we found the smartest yi main
if a grub is at full health after you kill one, it can only be healed to max, unlike with a shield which would make it their max hp plus a shield.
They already removed the shield interaction in 14.4
Yup, the one loser

(Are there more shieldbreaking junglers?)
Someone pointed out they removed that in 14.4
A shield can add to your max hp, healing cant.
Max HP + Shield = more than max hp

Max HP + Healing = max HP
Every single target jungler loves this since the sheald is basically just a heal not capped by max life. So the harder your champ can focus one down the stronger this gets. I like it
I hope it will make brand take them slower because his passive is aoe.
Didn't they already removed the shield break interaction for Void grubs couple patches ago
Umm I don't think this will happen because you don't lower the other voidgrubs' health to half for no reason.
Some ww players rush BORK early, like me, because better build path and recurve bow+jungle pet is basically as fast or faster, and I don't like the change tbh but I'll wait to see how it actually feels in game.

Ngl though vast majority of time I would just smite the first early for passive and quick killing if I wasn't sure it would be contested, and this doesn't change that at all.
Fiddle does missing HP damage, so healing makes Fiddle W weaker
Precisely, fiddle always had a good clear on grubs but now that's it easier for champs that focus fire, it's an indirect nerf. Having it easier for other champs lowers the advantage I otherwise had over them
This,it will make killing grubs less painful if you lack aoe dmg
So wait, does this mean now you can kill one grub and then immediately finish another one with a smite?
And also all the abilities that base damage on % HP, and stuff that work as shield removal like crocodile W or blitz R or others. And grecious wounds if they work on the heal, but yea, literally no difference that's why they are changing shit. So it doesnt change anything
But it made Rell jungle strong for grubs

Edit: Apparently it was already gone :(
Well single target damage dealers just ignore the other two --> dies, they got shield, but now they get nothing because it's a heal
The seconde one don't give bonus xp.
It's not a nerf at all, it only changes things for single target champs & % health damage dealers. Assuming the heal is equivalent to the shield amount. Unless by "huge nerf" you mean, a few others might clear faster than me.
Oh really? I see her so rarely in my games I didn't even notice.
[deleted]
Oh thats the difference you mean, i horribly misunderstood the context LMAO
Ww especially will love this. Makes it so he gets his 50% below attack speed faster basically.
Exactly!
It also means someone like Lilia or brand can clear them fairly evenly then dump burst into them when their DoT finally kills one off.
Dont think it will make him slower, but it will make single target jgl faster
Yeah, I just don’t get autofilled often so I didn’t know, some ppl corrected me elsewhere in the comment section
Dawg i cleared these so fast by using the W bug to transfer the AS to the full HP ones once i got he first sub50. I pry got WORLD RECORD warwick clear on those mfs.
Fair
No
They disabled shield brake one or two patches ago for grubbs
They already removed Rell's ability to shield break on monsters so she was already hard nerfed. It won't be too much different for her now with the heal.
It’s more about having the buff. Let’s say you do that exchange twice in a game. You’d have 2 grubs while opponent is at 4. If you believe the buff is useless then yeah go hard taking just 1. I enjoy having more of the grubs so the herald push we do later is bigger.
Becoming weaker compared to the roster is a nerf.
IIRC the only other shield-breaking abilities are Renekton W and Blitzcrank ult, and you don't see those two in the jungle.
Evelynn doesn't have shield break I'm pretty sure
I play ww very rarely but bringing the to half life each and then killing off one after the other should be able to rip through their shields I can imagine. And that is no longer possible so I'm not sure
He feels really bulshitty with his objective killing speed. I switched to maining mid this season and I always ward grubs or dragon depending on if my bot or top is the strongest. But brand kills them so ridiculously fast I can barely shove and rotate.
disappointing :c
Rell jungle was way too good with it.
Against the entire roster, sure.  
  
But this only makes them weaker compared to single target junglers, so it's more accurate to describe it as a buff for those champs in particular. In a game between AoE junglers, nobody is "nerfed".
Even if you did see them jungle, they didn't just target Rell in that patch. They made ALL shield breaks not work on monsters.
Correct, just fat MR shred
When grubs first came out I think I tried that before trying to kill them and the shields stop the attack speed, but I can’t remember. I’ll try when I get home. I have 700k with him and grubs are also kinda hard to leash into tiamat range for autos so it is a pain even if it were true, and even then his w passive is just so clunky when switching between targets that it is beyond painful to try and min/max it during a sneaky grab.

I’ll have to take it into practice tool because I have the memory of a piece of lint, but I’m not very hopeful.
Depends on the heal amount.
They're actually not that hard to leash into tiamat. Hit the middle one, run into river where they will follow and group up, then hit all of em next to each other.

Source: WW OTP
Ww actually hate this change (over 1 mil here, emerald+) - you just have to run to the middle of the river leasing them, and they all group in the entrance of the pit, then you just get them all lower at the same time with tiamat aoe and jg pet, eventually swapping targets after you get 1 of them to 300 hp, while other are above half and thats it, you get insane attack speed during shields, which lets you take them a whole lot faster
Yeah that's what it was thinking but we op so that's only fair 
/s
Tiamat is outdated on ww. Have you tried skipping it?
I dont feel comfortable when i skip it, unless im 5/0 on first back, since it feels like i cant clear at all. Even if i do skip it, i go for more tanky build with hydra, because i feel like this dpsy ww falls off too hard in mid/late game and i love the fealing of ww on 4 tank items that can just go in teamfight, peel for carries and mow everything down - slowly but successfully
Thought this was funny
For context, he hasnt reblogged anything in two years
Hello! Thanks for posting. This is a reminder about the rules. Make sure the post is appropriate and not to delegate or go against Reddit policy or r/Markiplier Rules. If this does break rules, please report it immediately. Posts that encourage raids on other subs or platforms is a bannable offense.

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/Markiplier) if you have any questions or concerns.*
Everyone hyped for the markussy but no one ready for the markock
Love this for him, I remember him having fun with tumblr for awhile lol
I love when we see the moments of Mark lurking😂 He's such a silly goose
5k upvotes and only 12 comments?

Where are the people?
everyone want markussy but noone asked schlussy
He put his whole markussy into it.
And this is why he hasn't opened tumblr in ages
I concur
is he referring to edge of sleep💀
His acting wasn't great in most scenes
That's it, to the dungeon with you.
Y'all couldn't even handle markitties.
I’m 100% ready for Markock if you know what I mean
Thats in IronLung :)))
You win
Aw, poor Mark lol 

I'm not even remotely surprised that's the first thing he saw
Not on Tumblr!
I mean this in a silly way btw, EoS was the first thing I saw him act in and I was so unready for him to have acting skills his acting was jarringly good
Well he kinda brought it on himself with the "Markussy" thing he said in a vid a few months back so I don't feel that bad, sorry not sorry Mark😂
Oh no, I meant this reddit post.  It's now at 8k upvotes and only 23 comments.
Lol oh I know, he really shouldn't be surprised at all, and he definitely brought it on himself
10k and 28 now
Found this while thrifting for $15
Absolutely perfect condition too
Hello! Thanks for posting. This is a reminder about the rules. Make sure the post is appropriate and not to delegate or go against Reddit policy or r/Markiplier Rules. If this does break rules, please report it immediately. Posts that encourage raids on other subs or platforms is a bannable offense.

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/Markiplier) if you have any questions or concerns.*
I swear everyone finds the good stuff when they thrift D:
GOLD find! Got one of these way back when but haven’t been able to find it☹️
^(Would you like to give it to me for $15 please?)

  
lol
What makes this better is because when <Redacted> was still around I was a freshman in high school with no money. So I never got the chance to get any merch when the channel was still around. So I’m so happy I found this. 
Memento Mori my friends 🖤🤍
That's inSANE
Omg that's an awesome  find
i still have unus annus merch i've never worn this is a great find
Incredible! What a rare find!
WHO WOULD GET RID OF THAT?!!
You've got to love thrifting
UNUS ANNUS! UNUS ANNUS! UNUS ANNUS! UNUS ANNUS! UNUS ANNUS! UNUS ANNUS!
Woah, lucky!
Omg so lucky! 🙀
ANYTIME YOU FIND AN UNUS ANNUS SHIRT BUY IT IF YOU CAN!!!
RIP to whoever lost that lol
I'm going to start a bidding war 20 dollars
I have that shirt!!! I’ve had to stich the pocket back on bc I’ve worn it so much
Noway 😭 my thrifts aren't like that!
you're at the top of my rob list
I've been hunting for this stuff for months and haven't found anything 🥲

Good find though
AHHHHHH
I'm speechless.... I had the white version, but I think someone in my family threw it out😞
I dream of this happening to me
YOU LUCKY MOTHER FUCKEEEEERRRRRR 😭
My wife and I still have our merch. Some Pins and shirts with lanyards.
I’ll give you the $20.14 I have for it.
Damn, Ive been looking for one ever since it ended. I couldn't afford one when they were selling
Nice, I still have mine from the last week of the store being open, along with my flag
Im moving soon and cleaned out my closet was so happy to find my shirt
I need to find one of those while thrifting
Someone is going to be yelling at someone back home 😵‍💫
i have this but in a medium and sadly i’ve gained weight and am not able to wear it anymore 🥹
I’ve been watching Mark since he got started back in 2011. I’ll watch a ton of stuff and then go for a bit without watching. One of those off periods happened to be during Unus Annus. I remember seeing something about it and being like “ eh looks silly I’m sure I won’t regret not checking that out”  I’m so sad I missed it.
super awesome find!!! i found a split hoodie in perfect condition for 20 bucks a few weeks ago :o)
Dang wouldn’t expect it to be in thrift stores so soon. I mean it’s been 5 years but still
I know it's not intentional, and it's just a symbol but

"XL 💀" is such an accidentally clammy meme that gives me a giggle
How much do want for it
I lost both of my founders hoodies when I moved from an abusive home, so I'm eternally sad about that, but hell yeah to you finding one of these! That gives me some hope for finding a replacement! 🖤🤍
My classmate was wearing one, took me aback because I'd never think I'd see one in my rinky dink college town
If only I could get so lucky! 😭
I still find clips of them super crazy they did this
Awesome luck
HOODIE. Good find!!
That's a great find. Good job.
It's true and real, good find!!
I can’t even find my long sleeved shirt 😭💔
YOOOOO
Want! Even if I’m 3 sizes too small
Unusual Annus was a highlight of 2020.
Mine like that got super rough and I don’t like wearing it. I wonder if that’s why they got rid of theirs
Idk if it's the photo but the colour looks slighty faded, compared to mine which I have only worn twice and keep it sealed off from direct sunlight.
I got a technoblade shirt from a charity shop for like £3 last month
What a strange hoodie. I wonder what it means
and a free pube! nice OP
See those hairs ? That's why I never thrift
How I hated how broke I was during Unus Annus and couldn’t get any merch. I was only able to get the skull dad cap at the end of its life.
Nice
I have that same one I got when they released it and still wear it almost weekly in my hoodie rotation lol I wanted to keep it nice, but that almost defeats the point of why they made that channel so.... 😅 Wear it till its nothing now I guess!
i saw someone trying to sell one for 150$ on facebook marketplace ;-;
Omg that's amazing, lucky find
I bought one of the white shirts with the clock on it, and now it’s slowly fading away, it adds to the message behind it, but still extremely tragic to me
Bro that's fire mark
Unnus anus
The sacred vestments
I remember my mom ordered merch for me as a surprise but unfortunately the order got canceled due to something being inputted wrong, can’t remember what exactly but she was so heartbroken since I loved that channel 

She then went to the ends of the earth trying to find custom made merch off Etsy or something. Way too expensive 

More than thankful for her trying no matter what. Great find OP!!!
Hey I have a white hoodie like that for which I paid full price for lol that’s an awesome find 😁
I no see hoodie
Yo sick! I still have my white one somewhere
Omg who donated that? If it doesn't fit anymore you frame that
OMG!! How can someone throw unus annus into a thrift store? Lmao Lucky you!!
Crying bc I can't find mine 😭😭😭😭
DAMN what a find
Damn lucky
Holy crap!!!
I'm so jealous! Dude, I'd die if I ever found anything Unus Annus at Goodwill...
I have a whole set of them like the hoodie shirt and t shirt but it’s all medium but now I’m a large I should’ve bought large
I will never understand how someone could buy [REDACTED] merch and then donate it😭
WHO LEFT THIS ARTIFACT IN A THRIFT STORE
Damn that is good condition. My time of purchase clock has already rubbed off
My only hope is that onenday I can thrift the limited edition drunk minecraft stein glass 🙏
Fr?
That is hella awesome!!
Thats awesome dude I'm so jealous!
goated find fr (i could never since all i seem to get is stuff thats too small for me)
Lucky
You lucky duck
Wearing my UA merchandise to this day, 1 short sleeve 1 long sleeve
Bro, I bought one at the last second and I was so happy when I got It but one day some bully's stull it at school and i never got it back
Nice brings back memories
I find good stuff all the time shame most of that time the stuff never fits.
What thrift store did op get this from?
Who would thrift this?!!
Unnus anus
I still have my white one :)
I wish I found that even though it would be WAY to big
That's amazing
Are you f****** kidding me I'll buy that off of you
After Unus annus was done I went to a site that I thought was you know like legit turns out it wasn't I spent over $700 and never received anything that I had purchased.so that sucks.
My dude I'd pay $100.00 for the sweater. But it's clearly not in great as shape as you say, cause you can see the wear in it which is bound to happen.. But I really want the black and white one. I love it. Symbolic too ADHD thinking. Genuinely genius.
That’s so sad :(
awesome sauce dude
Maybe that’s mine… mine got stolen in 2020 in this big crate of clothes of mine 💀 idk where it went at all
Ahhhh I am so jealous
nice deal!!!
I work at a good will and always keep my eye out for stuff like this
Ahh the memories huh MARK AKA the late"Aunus"
Damn I've still got mine. Wear it quite a bit!
MY BROTHER HAS THIS AND IVE ALWAYS WANTED IT
Someone GAVE THAT UP WILLINGLY?!? You’d have to pull that from my cold dead hands!
I don't know why you posted a blank image bro
Living in the midwest and a town filled with older folks, you'll never find stuff like this 🥲
sobbing
Memento Mori
Lucky
Very nice 👍
God, all of my unus annus stuff got donated against my will, so I hope it’s making people happy like this ;-;
Cool find
I wanna go look at mine o
how dare they leave the cult
Nice
Literally no idea why this is cool or rare or anything am I seriously that old
Same, but I can never find anything good myself :(
Found an Xbox 360 for $2
I got a full Spamton costume back in 2021 in a single thrift store, and also got myself a book, only good things lmao
I found almost 200 dollar docs for 30 bucks once
SAME, it's heartbreaking
Your mom took it to the thrift store for you.
$15? That’s $0 of profit, OP. Gotta sell it for at least 18.
I got my hoodie (same as one in pic) during their last livestream. I never wore it and keep it hanging in my closet because I don't want to ruin it
Most of the Unus Annus merch I got was, unfortunately, really poor quality. I couldn't wear any of the merch I got because of how uncomfortable the material was.
yo me too! we’re that same graduating class most likely! i’m class of 23 :)
Memento Mori, friend! I'm happy for you!
My brother bought me this exact hoodie back in 2020. He bought himself the white variant too.
They mightve died
Me
UNUS ANUS! UNUS ANUS! UNUS ANUS!
Some one beat you to it and its at $40
100!
^[Sokka-Haiku](https://www.reddit.com/r/SokkaHaikuBot/comments/15kyv9r/what_is_a_sokka_haiku/) ^by ^angsty_teen_things:

*Im moving soon and*

*Cleaned out my closet was so*

*Happy to find my shirt*

---
^Remember ^that ^one ^time ^Sokka ^accidentally ^used ^an ^extra ^syllable ^in ^that ^Haiku ^Battle ^in ^Ba ^Sing ^Se? ^That ^was ^a ^Sokka ^Haiku ^and ^you ^just ^made ^one.
Fabric softener, while vinigar and a trip through the tumble drier with some wool drier balls should have it soft and comfy again.
A lint roller and a trip through the washing machine can fix that. Also all clothes you bye from shops have been tried on by multiple people. Always wash new clothes.
You could always use fabric paint to revatqlise it!
Just a local Good Will
You might just be cooked
Ah you missed [redacted] dureing 2020 then?
I find good stuff. Just not in the right size. 😭
I found a 400 dollar leather jacket for 35 quid if that gives you any hole for finding anything
What the hell that’s awesome
does it work???
I'd buy it for a solid $20 bill
all things must come to an end, wear that hoodie and get the most out of it until its time is up
[deleted]
UNUS ANNUS! UNUS ANNUS! UNUS ANNUS! UNUS ANNUS!🖤🤍🖤🤍🖤🤍💀
$55
Dang 9.33x10^157 dollars is a lot of money
Awe thanks I will try!
Oh nice gotta start shopping at my local thrift store and see what I can find lol
I only just noticed the typo frick
yes
Well id hope it wasn't liquid or gas
😎 Behold my $35
$20 is $20
Oh no.. I still have that one sitting in an unopened package. Now i don't know if I should wear it and just... never wash it?
oh no 😭 they didn’t get it
75 USD 🫡
It has double meaning lol
that’s interesting
I'll raise you. $40 CAD
Yup
Hohoho! You dare challenge the great DIO-sama!?
Behold my $50!
1 million doll hairs 🖐️
BEHO-... wait a minute, not like this T-T I can't lose to hairs
"Junglers stay thriving"
I found this reply to League's post on Twitter from a few days ago to be pretty funny considering jungle sees more nerfs than buffs every year for multiple years running at this point. It's even more funny after riot posted the dev notes on the changes and almost all the conversation directed at junglers is talking about making it harder for us to gank and get early leads. Any positive comments about jungle changes mostly serve to benefit other lanes, like better roaming paths, red and blue buffs going to the entire team after baron spawns or the changes to objectives which benefit the entire team. But for sure, "Junglers stay thriving" 😂
Mid becomes almost impossible to gank

Twitter: "literally unplayable"
Honestly I do kind of like the idea of playing more towards the actual jungle/dueling with the opposing jungler than having to base my entire game plan on putting out fires in lane. If ganking is harder to do hopefully the laners become less reliant on it overtime
Lol, "thriving" is one way to put it.
It’s good. I’ve been playing nonstop since all the content dropped. Feels more about early team fights around objectives now. Just moving around the map is great 

Hard to gauge if anything is broken though. Mainly playing against silvers and bronze isn’t the best environment
This one twitter person is delusional. All I’ve been seeing from every lane including botlane saying that almost every lane looks ungankable unless it’s by someone like kayn or J4. Jungle diversity is gonna drop like a rock. All we are gonna see is J4, eve, Zac, and kayn for a long while.
Idk about thriving, but it is funny watching other main subs losing their mind over the changes. 

Jungle players are just used to everything getting fucked every 6-12 months
Yeah, didnt they nerf jungle gold again as well? like something around 25g less per fullclear? In addition to the changes to turret plating gold? Jesus, i will be sitting in the river begging the damn support for gold soon. 

I wouldnt be surprised if jungle becomes the main autofill role again, i mean, why play it? Laners hate us, we barely get any gold and experience from camps, ganking became insanly hard etc. etc. etc. Playing farming simulator for 20 minutes just to be another support for the ADC sure sounds fun...
"Top is truely an island" "Botlanes will never play again" Bruh, it's the exact same fucking map topography as top lane, just flipped 180 degrees. SMH.
If there's anything I learnt from lol it's : "Consume and Adapt:
Guess I’ll start playing farming junglers even more
>Midlaners are even more depressed

The two assassin mains that are left maybe but this is 100% going to be even more of a mage meta than it is rn and midlaners are the biggest winners, as well as any botlaners who will switch from marksmen to mages. Junglers will only stay thriving because Riot is overtuning mages to make them viable in the jungle so we will probably see a lot more Karthus, Taliyah, Zyra, Brand etc.
Lol everyone that doesn't play jungle just regurgitates this "jungle is insane!!!" nonsense
If this shit is thriving i want to see what struggle looks like
"Top is an island" after putting a huge buff to their side of the maps neutral obj. Top laners arent gonna be able to handle the increase in agency they have lolol
The way i see it. (From a toplaner's point of view). Pushing for plates on toplane will be "easier" to punish.

Just, toplane itself seems a bit harder to gank when the lane is in a neutral position. But i think that the moment someone starts to push to the tower he's easier to get trapped.

But this is just me judging from a few images i've seen and actual experience might be different.

And for the bonus points, i think champs like Kayn, Talon and Zac are gonna have a fun time in the jungle and most others will suffer trying to get used to it.
The s14 changes are so freaking good lol, imagine complaining about them
season 14 will be great love the grub
All is the jungler’s fault, at least in latam, like… unless you are the jungler? The jungle will constantly ignore objectives, only go over to your lane if they think they can steal some kills. I have seen a master yi not go over to lane all game cuz he is farming, and all drakes and heralds were done by the enemy
I think the way voids stack happens is not good for the gameplays, but their intentions seems to be to encourage teamplays on objective. The problem is, the cost of being the team engaging the objective and being ganked is heavier than ganking that team, so teams only rarely group on obj until later, and obj will be accomplished by lonely jg taking their chances or having secured it with a kill
I've already switched to top preemptively where I'll just afk split push for 19 minutes and then be 4 levels ahead of the enemy jungler when I catch him doing Herald.
Man with lanes being even more difficult to gank junglers are going to be getting way more flame for not stopping their mid from going 0/11
The implications on this are so bad. Ignoring top lane because the lane itself is harder to gank is brain dead. You still have to take or contest the void grub. Letting the enemy get all 6 is trolling.
Jungle stay thriving, MY GUY I HAVE HAD TO RE LEARN ALMOST ALL MY CLEARS EVERY PATCH
Oh no, I smell ADC main delusion
The new map is awesome, I love seeing this kind of change for league.
Is it really surprising that LoL's twitter account is run by an ADC main at this point? Absolutely phreakshow
that guy is 100% adc main
Thriving????? Bro wdym
i agree theres so many jglers that arnt gonna be able to gank any lane other than bot imo like how is udyr ever ganking midlane
If junglers have been getting constant nerfs wouldn’t that imply they’ve at least **been** thriving lol
How are we thriving? 

We are gonna be forced to focus farm/objectives/counter jungle getting less XP and gold than anyone else and be unable to gank unless you play a specific champ
Imagine crying while playing the most broken role in the game, despite all the nerfs jungle is still the strongest role by far.
The new season is a straight up nerf to jungle. Fewer gank options, being invaded is significantly more harmful. Even if you power farm you’re still down 1-2 levels exp.
Top lane is a so walled up that unless you are Rek'Sai or Kayn and new Skaner whom all can walk through walls, there's no way to gank anyone with more than 2 working brain cells.  
Mid is now even more safer and the only chance of going there is basically diving.  
Bot lane will again be the focus of ganks.
No… They’re right
Your victim mentality for karma points on reddit is astonishing :D
if you ask every role their role got hit the hardest, u ask top lane? gg counter picked and now even jg cant help. you ask jungle? gg no ganks no carry. you ask mage mid? gg too much mr in the game now. you ask assassin mid? gg kills dont give anything. you ask adc? gg no new items, only adc item isnt even good on adcs. you ask support? honestly, ive never seen a delusional enough sup to say they got hit, maybe besides easier bot gank complaints.
Here are the [dev notes](https://www.leagueoflegends.com/en-ph/news/dev/dev-season-2024-map-changes/) for anyone who's interested
We do start thriving though
I’m not so sure about mid mages. Roaming supports have direct entry to their land now. At decent elo, mids will get fucked immediately when out of position. What I’m more worried about is mid prio not mattering anymore, as they’ll have direct access to the jungle from tower, potentially invalidating any early invades
I loved that the game became harder for everyone and a lot more stuff is stronger, the jungle monsters, the itens and even buffs from the jungle.

For me personally the best course of action in therms of balancing is to make everything stronger and broken 'cause if everythings strong and broken, than nothing is strong and broken so that players have the choice to play whatever they want 'cause it will be busted somehow, maybe in a more specific scenerio, but still strong.

TL:DR I think the balancing needs to be more like DOTA, if something is too strong instead of nerfing it make everything as strong, that's way more fun.
Played a game of Karthus jungle on PBE and it was the first time I've enjoyed playing this game in about a month (even despite 183ms ping). The new AP items are super cool, new voidgrubs make early drakes even more irrelevant and afk farming until you have 1000 AP and one shot everyone at 35 minutes is something I missed more than I realized. Overall can't wait for S14, probably gonna spam PBE games and won't play ranked until then.
Finally we’ll chill on top lane.
As a non-Jungle player (literally the only role I've never played at all)... isn't both mid *and* bot more gankable and top *less* gankable, like... objectively? Or am I not understanding something?
As a low elo player the new map doesnt scare me. At my elo, poeple will first recognise you once you are on tveir screen, bushes or not impact me
Feels more like jungle is its own lane now, but seeing as how important objectives are if you getting autofilled Jungle good fucking luck, you're gonna have a bad time.
LEAGUE PLAYERS TRY NOT TO SABOTAGE GOOD CHANGES CHALLENGE IMPOSSIBLE
Thats for low elo. It's gonna be dive fest in higher elos with how open mid is
Mid is dive fest idk what you’re on about
Sir are you pisslow?
we all know by how much laners blame junglers while being solo killed, that the last line will not be true
Sorry, my app is bugging. That was a reply to a different post

I'd love to see that happen, but "blame the jg" is so ingrained in the mindset at this point I have my doubts
For that to happen they need to like double jungle gold and triple xp

Otherwise you'd just be two supports 1v1ing
Yeah, imagine 1v1 between Shyvana and Graves, what a fun game would it be
just gonna result in them still feeding because they are bad, and you cant even try help because paths are abysmal. Double jg gap
Just play a lane in that case
yeah but if you pick something like nunu and opp picks something like kindred you can never duel opp, never gank and never invade since its easier for laners to roam and stop your invades
We'll be healthy and thriving AFK farming until the 30 minute mark
Yeah, it’s not a good gauge when I’m just stomping every single game. 

But toplane is virtually ungankable, 1 ward completely reveals every gank angle for blue and red side. I see a bunch of people worried about an Eve/J4 meta and I’ve tried a couple diff junglers, and honestly Kha feels REALLY good with new items and the map.
The way I’ve described it is “The Game feels AMAZING”
But “The games feel TERRIBLE” 
No one is accurately ranked, and no one is trying to win the game, they’re just fighting for fightings sake (which I totally get on PBE)
You end up with games where score is 35-29 at 18 minutes, with zero dragons and 2 towers total having been taken
I think udyr will end up being pretty good with the new item changes plus the increased focus on river/camp control
Yeah its either one of the champions that still can gank like the ones you listed or just afk farming teamfighters that shine when there is an objective fight.
Yeah, I noticed that as well. Kayn is my own main, and I started picking him back up not long before they teased these changes.
I actually would like to both play styles to be valid, either ganking and instauring chaos on the lanes, snowballing top or bot and they carry the game for you.

Or power farm jungle carrys that focus on dueling, stealing farm and getting strong to carry the game by yourself.

But of course for that strategy to work properly we need a better communication system (something like a voice idk), so that we don't rely on ourselves solo to win a COOP STRATEGY GAME!
And I will happily pick my spam invade graves into that
Shaco
eve >:)
>All we gonna see is Zac, Kayn, Eve, J4 for a long while....




Soooooooo, nothing changes? Cool ig.
I think champs like J4, Udyr, Noct, Hec will still excel in their gank ability and play around it
Idk about this. I’ve been liking and having success with gragas , ivern, rammus and mao in emerald.
This is exactly what I was thinking. I'll watch top laners get 8 buffs and 1 nerf in the same time frame and throw a complete fit then just think about how if we got 8 nerfs and 1 buff that'd be an improvement for us.
Yup, they sure did. Because the role has to suffer because of how the game is fundamentally built. Jungle is by far the least rewarding role, but there's just something so euphoric about getting it right. Something akin to a living game of chess where every move matters, and the more steps ahead of the enemy you are, the higher your chances of winning. It's the James Moriarty of roles.
Jungle should be a low economy role
People in this sub are so delusional, meanwhile jungle has been the easiest lane to climb and impact games through every single season, just gitgut lol
Its -39gold (20 kurgs, 9 woolfs, 10 raptors) per fullclear leading to around -500 gold per game, statictically speaking.
it's not though, now both sides of bot lane are like current blue side (the tri bush side) while top lane are the same on both sides as current blue side (the big ass wall without tri bush
Welcome to copium of legends, my friend, where the wildest people will look at a change and use it as an excuse to validate their baseless opinions 😂
Nothing to do one thing with another. That comment is talking about all the changes, not just the map.

Map changes make both lanes more isolated and harder to gank, turning top into more  of an island than what already was.

Item/objetives changes makes the game more snowbally, with more damage and more early focused, wich makes botlaners be just a free bag of gold (again)
Not at all?, top as a wall blocking junglers from coming from being and a single easely wardable bush. While mid and bot are full of holes and gank paths
What does SMH mean? Suck my hog? Or something else?
Oh, that's been my mentality long before league, but it's nice that it applies here as well.
Fellow belveth main?
"Consume cheetos and mountain dew ahd gank these nerds".
I wish this were a joke, but the literal goal of most of these changes in the dev notes is to make any ganks harder, especially early game.
The two AD* assassins that are left. I think AP assassins will still be good if mages are gonna be meta.
The people who say that are the same people who won't play it themselves cause it's too complicated
Riot: hold my beer.
Pretty sure whoever posted that didn’t actually look at any changes and just saw that photo and decided to have a fit.
5 years mastering kindred wall hops for nothing  
it's over
I can see that
I'm excited to see how it changes the general flow of the game. Obj changes alone are so dynamic now it's gonna be wild.
https://images.app.goo.gl/V9zCaHD97HNT1Dyu9
Same in NA brother
From what I've seen, people seem a lot more encouraged to group for objs, but ofc like before it's still dependent on who's alive, who you have vision om etc.
You are very correct, if botlane sees more attention than top it won't be because of the map changes it'll be because of lazy minded players and the number of people who share that mentality is depressingly concerning.
Weirdly enough. I think he's a top main based on his ranked history. But he has 50% jungle games overall. Kind of a strange guy tbh.
Lmao, right? Guys, a bit delu
You're not wrong. Everyone is going to have complaints. However, while other lanes get balance changes. Jungle gets nerfs. The closest things to a buff we've gotten in a long time were 1. when they opened up jungle to more champs by improving damage to monsters, as well as gold and exp adjustments (good and bad) and 2. When they gave us jungle pets and returned some of the smite damage they took away. Even then, there are about a hundred nerfs before between and after. No other lane has a buff/nerf ratio that looks like that.
Thriving for us would be not getting nerfed every year. But I will say we have an interesting new playground.
I feel like because of those reasons, mid prio is going to end up even more important. Direct access to jungle will benefit the lamer more than the jungle long as you keep your vision up and are careful of your positioning. It also allows you to get to objs and help as well as answer any fights in jungle or river much quicker. I honestly think mid is going to shine this season.
https://youtu.be/e2hO2tALgCY?si=ZB6QfsX9HjDIpVgE
Oh, don't misunderstand. I'm all for the new changes. They're interesting and dynamic, and it's a change that people have been asking for for years at this point. But I'm still gonna call it like I see it.
Im apologizing in advance to all my mid laners who will have to suffer from my limit testing regarding dives.
*Locks in Elise*
That's an extra path for the mid laner to walk out of. It's literally undiveable now. In almost every mid lane dive the laner is getting stuck between the tower and wall. That wall isn't there anymore. It's like how the alcove makes Zeri and Bard almost ungankable. Most mid laners have 600+ range wave clear anyway so what wave are you gonna dive with?
Dives rely on either you already being fedor burst enough to kill which is harder to do unless the enemy actually doesn’t know how to ward, and/or your teammates following up with you which isn’t always gonna happen even in high elo.
Definitely not at first but maybe as they keep playing and keep noticing they just don’t get as many ganks anymore they’ll quit bitching so much. Prob not tho in all reality
It’s already blame the jg mindset in the PBE. I play with a diamond botlane duo that is CONVINCED we’re gonna see toplane and botlane swap because of how “stupidly r*garded easy” it is to gank botlane. Peak delusion
Which a 4 role deserves
Healthy as long as the laners aren’t warding our jungle and killing us at our camps
Sounds good tbh, maybe that would finally end the reign of the blind monk and bring back the good old stuff like jungle Jax, Nasus, Tryndamere, Twitch etc.
As a Taliyah OTP, yes, i think i will be thriving
Or just camping botlane even more
Yeah this was how it was at first. Played about 40 games and mmr is starting to kick in. Playing against emerald to diamond players rn. Feels a little more competent. Nobody is playing tanks though
Amumus year
the rune that replaces perfect timing will give a skill point. 

Normally at lvl 18 udyr will have smth like Q6/W1/E5/R6 but with the skill point potion you can get Q6/W1/E6/R6 

I dont play Udyr but having one more maxed spell sounds pretty interesting
top udyr might be better tho
When you see udyr pop ghost and empowered E coming right at you
Fiddle fits both of these oh lord
I tried to one trick Kayn and when he's popular it's impossible
The problem is ganks are just objectively better. You take someone off the map providing your team more pressure. It opens up objectives, possibly getting towers and farm leads. And is actually interactive with the game.

League doesn’t wanna go back to the old devourer meta of old, and riot has changed the jungle time and time again to make farming not worth it.

In the time that I can take my side of the jungle someone else can gank twice, have pressure for crab and because of how cookies work for your jungle item the fucker will be even with you so you can’t win the smite fights either.

Jungle is being made to gank. Farming is just an afterthought.
I don’t even think shaco could with how limited his stealth is. I think it would run out by the time you actually get to the laner
Kayn and J4 have been prevalent, but Zac and Eve are pretty rare
Udyr is gonna get fucked. All he does is run at someone, sure he can empower his ram stance but when he needs to go halfway across the map with how open it is. If you can’t just walk away from him at that point it’s on you.
I think the Main issue is that riot doesnt know what they want. They dont like us perma farming, neither do they like us perma ganking. It always moves in a circle and they are never pleased with the result.

 This low income jungle is going to force a ganking meta in a map that makes ganking way weaker than before. This is going to feel pretty bad, and unrewarding. The entire role is designed for us to create an unfair advantage, yet they hate when we do it
The Main Problem is that jungle has Zero safety Buttons. If the enemy support/Midlands starts invading you cant do anything, there are no Towers to protect you or anything. You have to sacrifice your only source of income, which feels insanly bad and unrewarding.
If you can play it then yes, you can have agency. The problem with that is that is still a team game. So, in case of even teams, usually, better jungler wins. But is not alway the case. Right now, even if you shit on your jungler opponents you can very well lose regardless because you don't have enough gold and XP to compensate the gap between you and solo laners
And then, in 2 months, dipshits like you will be here begging “why cant i get a jungler who isnt autofilled!!!1!”
Thx for providing such deep insights, we are truly blessed to have someone like you among us
Thx, i hate it!

It is so god damn awful...
[deleted]
Now that's a better explanation of what's going on, tyvm for this. <3
https://dictionary.cambridge.org/us/dictionary/english/smh
That’s a K6 quote if I’m not mistaken
consume and adapt is k6
Meta has revolved around early jgs and spam ganking for a couple of years, so I'd say it makes sense.

Top is harder to gank, which is good, it's the role with the least agency early game, and bot has been getting ganked on repeat for years, so if a jg decides to path top on first clear, the other toplaner can't play the game for the first 4-5 minutes. And unlike other lanes, you don't recover from that shit unless jg comes, which they won't, because you're behind now, and botside is more important

Mid will now be more about diving, but it's still really gankable through river. I haven't played on pbe, but from what I've seen, I'm pretty sure river is wide enough to make it so the current thin wall jg entrance spot doesn't cover the other side of the river. Plus, there's tons of set up for ganks in midlane, and new angles have opened up

What they've done in botlane is straight up evil, but botlane is currently the most important lane, so it makes sense. 

I mean, the only lane I see as a lot less gankable is toplane, midlane can still be ganked comfortably, you just won't be able to oogabooga walk into lane without any setup and get mid's flash regardless
If jungle was as OP as people said it is, everyone would play it.

But for some reason, they don’t 🤔
 they blatantly lie that it's easy even though they admit they suck at things like tracking enemy jungler. when dared to put money where their mouth is, they will chicken out like a wuss and come up with excuses like /u/DarkMagicianBr did

https://gyazo.com/70722a8daaaf57d9a30981277f7ba80d

https://www.reddit.com/r/Jungle_Mains/comments/17ghr63/since_both_laners_junglers_and_pro_viewers_hate/k6kqevc/
Rip, my heart goes out to you.
I'm really curious to see how jungle and top lane handle the new map. Tops will have way more agency but they can't just sit in top lane afk farming either. A top ignoring grubs is just as bad as a jungler doing it. I imagine low elo junglers are gonna be a nightmare because they have even more things to consider. High elo probably loves that there's better trade offs for early drag now.
>Everyone is going to have complaints

but jungle mains assume their complaints are the only valid ones

>while other lanes get balance changes

top laners that pick first are gonna be even worse now, so more counter based meta and adcs didnt even get an item, that one adc item is literally better on everything besides adcs, they're just gonna get ganked more, you could argue for mid and top being just balance changes, but how can you even say that adc didnt get nerfed hard, im asking as a jungle and adc player (main jungle)

>The closest things to a buff we've gotten in a long time were 

item buffs. bruiser items getting buffed literally made a lot of junglers like jarvan overwhelming, now assassins seem to be buffed too.

>No other lane has a buff/nerf ratio that looks like that.

didnt ADC literally get item nerfs (which everyone thought was a buff even tho it ended up in adcs building non adc mythics) to the point where you either pick kaisa or pray that enemy kaisa is just bad? i havent seen a single role being defined by a single champion for a while, in the same vain mid lane mages had no item diversity and literally only got to handshake syndra orianna, idk, maybe if you guys played other roles you wouldnt doom and gloom so hard, by the way i dont agree with jungle nerfs and whatnot, if they got reverted id only be happy, but its not like we're the only ones eating nerfs and whatnot.
I'm gonna have a lot of fun I bet
Syndrome was right all along
I’m thinking more about the Twitter, but what can you expect from Twitter XD
I can’t tell if you’re apologizing to the enemy mid laners you’re going to dive and kill on repeat every game or if you’re apologizing to your ally mid laners when you’ll be ‘’limit testing’’ (not griefing) and dive at every opportunity
Play safe
Cant wait to play hwei and see a camille jump through raptor while leona and élise Come from that funky opening lmao
All you need to dive is mid flash down and a cannon wave stacked (provided you dont have passive af champions in mid and jgl)
Laners I'll always find someone to point their finger at before considering it was their mistake... if not the junglers they'll point at each other
Since when do your laners quit bitching when they don't get ganks? Can we swap laners...?

We all know what will happen, they will bitch more...
I’ve only watched a handful of pbe videos but each one has plat to bronze players getting insanely angry at their challenger jg not perma fighting losing fights in mid for no objectives at all while they are all 2-7 and the jg is the only one doing even remotely well lol. Even the gameplay coming out from them during ganks just shows they literally don’t understand the game at all, it’s just dump all my shit at that guy and he should just die mentality.
A 4 role? Wat
Why has my gold stuck dumbass never thought of this 

Thank you for the tip
Jungle jax is mostly what I play, am I doing it wrong?
Jax is actually perfectly viable right now, go try it out! Trundle also good after the buffs
[deleted]
Eh really, in AP/Tank builds there is not much incentive from getting R6 and Q1. In AD builds the reverse. Unless he becomes some hybrid build that shows up I don’t see it happening even more when W max second is the standard vs most comps unless they are very mobile
Yeah, even when I was a one trick, I still had to keep a pocket champ close by
I don't agree 100% but I get your point, but in my opinion Junglers that are able to 1v1 anyone to get crab and vision control to pressure the enemy jungler and therefore the lanes 'cause they know we're the enemy jungler are and be more aggressive in lane. Ganking isn't objectively better overall, they are objectively better in a game WITHOUT communication.

There's a lot of ways to impact the map and guarantee pressure, information and resources to your team without ganking, that's why skirmish Junglers are so strong on pro-play, they can impact team fight, get pressure and some have a decent gank.

I agree on what you're saying in the current state of the game you're right, but that being the only viable strategy is lame the game NEEDS more variety and ways to play, for that we need COMMUNICATION.
You,d prolly have to max q to gank for longer stealth but that sucks. Yeah riot isn't hitting with this one.
Walking away isn't one of the strong suits of low elo fortunately
You've pretty much nailed it on the head
Man when i see that 2nd death of top or mid im already ready to call it a day some games, i know that now fed aatrox/ksante/gangplank/garen/younameit is about to live in my jungle.
That's not just a jungle problem tho, rn unless you play Vladimir there are no champs that can actually 1v9 anymore
No mate, you dont understand, it is the junglers who are wrong, the role is busted, that is why everyone wants to play the role, Trust me bro! It is very fun and no one can stop you, easy wins 24/7!!

Sometimes i honestly think laners should be forced to play 20 games of jungle in a row, that would probably make 90% of them shut up for good. They probably never experienced the fun it is being behind 3 levels behind laners because you get invaded 24/7, or the feeling that your laners dont respond to the pings when you spotted the enemy jungler just to See them die 20 seconds later. Pure dread.
Kayn, Zac, Rek'sai, Shaco, Viego E, Kha'Zix E, Fiddle R, Briar R, Warwick R, high mobility/towerdive champs like Rammus or Hecarim, off Meta jungles like: Shen or Galio who can both dive and Tp with R, Karthus or Morgana who don't really need to be in your face to preform a successful gank. That's just the stuff I thought off right off the top of my head in about a min or 2. 

Bot lane hasn't changed that much it's just more semantical now. (If you were fine playing Adc/Sup on blue side, you'll be just as fine now.) Mid lane is probably in the biggest trouble since towerdives are a lot more viable from all angles. While top is the biggest change, it's far from impenetrable. I gave plenty of examples as to why. 

If you've played this role long enough, you've had to re-learn it every 3 or 4 years. It's practically just par with the course, but that doesn't make it suck any less that it keeps happening. Destroy, consume, adapt. Wash, rinse, repeat.
I see, I was a little off lol
The least queued role in the world. 

Almost like it's not easy having to manage 80% of the map as well as incorporating the remaining 20% and the movement of the people in those lanes into your every action. 🤔
It's definitely going to make things feel a lot more dynamic, and I'm crazy excited for the new season. My only hope is that people will get past their complaints long enough to take advantage of the changes.
My guy. 

1. No one said anyone's else's complaints weren't valid.

2. No one said other roles didn't get nerfed.

3. Your comments about items, while a valid concern, are too champion specific to speak for the entire state of a lane.

4. Not a single one of your responses does anything to challenge nor dispute anything I've said. You're practically arguing with no one. 

Lastly, what are you so mad for? You came in to subreddit made for jungle mains, just to shit talk jungle mains... trust me, that says a lot more about you than anyone else here, just having fun and bonding over a common opinion.
You're not wrong there
Why not both
Imagine diving a mid laner for the 3rd time in a row and killing them. Then just put "sorry" in all chat. That'll go well lmao
Well, they can shit talk riot. It's a win-win for both the jungler and the laner. Riot doesn't read chat anyway.
I don't doubt that in the slightest. A lot of players don't realize that fewer fights are usually better. Yes, when you do fight, you're more likely to get kills, but you're just as likely to give kills as well. The whole game is like a tango on a chess board; you fight when you have the advantage and do your best to survive and not fall behind when you don't. But every laner who defaults to "Blame jungle" is so desperate to get fed rather than look at the bigger picture that they just end up feeding and borderline inting.
Nothing will screw over a jg more than knowing where he is at all times

Edit: and his 0/7 at 12 minutes top laner
I guess Jax never really goes out of style, he's a very good design, but I haven't seen him as jungler for a long time.
The reason why Jax isn't particularly good is that his clear speed is pretty slow and you'll end up losing the race to people who can full clear at 2x speed. You can keep pace if you can take advantage of early opps and get a kill or 2, but if you're just farming and matching you'll fall behind pretty fast.
Not sure what this guy is thinking but I would guess something like the decreased focus on early game and more team fights in the jungle benefit the mummy who is weak early game and good at team fights. Could be wrong tho I’m silver
Amumu has a LONG stun and gap close, in these new longer ganking paths he should stand out as a great ganker where others may be suffering.

Also the new void grubs will be so easy for him to farm. 

Obviously this all depends on hitting your skill shot....
I hate it when people bring up pro play in any way when taking about this game. 99.99% of players never reach that level and never will. Pro play is a different game where different things work because they have different circumstances of playing than every other poor sod playing league.

Communication is never coming to league of legends. They have done countless patches and backend updates recently that prove they want you to talk less, play more, pay more. Ganking junglers have been better than farmers for years unless one gets outa hand with stupid buffs. 

I agree that I want more viable strats for the jungle. But the game physically cannot allow that with how impactful they make ganks.
So as long as you play in bronze or iron you are safe
Thx, what can I say. A part of us likes suffering i guess. Cant wait for the surprised pikachu faces from riot once less and less people play jungle. Phreak is probably going to gaslight us and say something like "the role is still busted, you not liking the role is simply because you dont have the data!!"

Jungle is designed to suffer, simpel as that. No role has to relearn stuff again and again every season.
It’s because we have the easiest access to punishing enemy mistakes; being able to remove an enemies solo agency whilst enhancing your own = ‘broken’, but many players simply forget that solo agency has evolved a ton since the days of season 3 where even a silver player could 1v9 a gold game if he had a 2 kill lead, the game was brain dead back then. Riot simply have zero clue what to do to make jungle satisfying to play, because if we’re being realistic we ultimately have the best role to capitalise on shitter enemies but also the most inherently frustrating role at the same time. It’s also soloq… which is why jgl will always be ‘broken’, soloq is a messy environment & we have the easiest access to taking advantage of said environment
No man, you can solo carry, dont worry, Aatrox is just 3  levels ahead and 1 item, you can take him!

Jungle wirh competent laners is amazing, but there are those games in which you know that it is done because you haven even finished the clear and it is already 0/4
I used to be able not to win, but to drive the game in the direction I wanted during last preseason/this early season. I spammed heavy ganking jungler, I was even with the farming one and I had 5 or 6 kills early on. This gave me leverage to let my team scale and win for me. For a solid 15m I was a death machine on the map and I could 1v9 anyone. Of course I would fall off but that's why I was spamming tanks early on. After 15. My team scaled and I just had to close the game.
Right now I'm 2 or 3 levels down a solo later, therefore I'm useless even if I played really well. Also, a farming jungler can still be ahead even by doing nothing
Honestly thinking about it now, about half of my games where i specifically had a major impact as jungle were against people with little to no mastery on their champ, and id like to believe theyre not first timing in ranked because they want to lmao. Oh well, as more junglers die out and jungle goes back to being the least played role, theyll buff it again and suddenly jungling will be 1v9 every game. Its an endless cycle we cant escape, especially when people forget their 4 key exists.
[deleted]
I like your version better
Agreed, everything looks way more dynamic. I'm probably gonna start jungling again just to get a feel for new timings and what not.
>just to shit talk jungle mains...

no? i only shit talk jungle mains because they're acting like adc mains, bunch of crying little babies, pulling up challenger only stats to prove how weak and useless every single champion besides zac and rammus is apparently.
it was they shit talking riot that got jungle nerfed tho, "oh jg is op rio don't know how to balance de game" and such things  
itt was laners complaint that got us in this situation lol  
that's why once jg is gonne they'll blame riot and other laners as well until every support is a yummi that's shakled to their adc so they can't roam and impact the game, and mid lane will get a movement debuff as soon as they leave the lane
He's obviously not as fast as someone like Hecarim but he's definitely not on the slow side. What are you building on him?
Bruh Amumu is strong early, you're completely wrong
AP burst hasn't been as good as it is on the PBE since Deathfire and tank paths got a huge upgrade in versatility and utility so I'd say Amumu has plenty of options to approach games from a tactical/build perspective as well.
You seriously don't understand strategy games don't you?
Even in emerald you can run through 2 wards on the way to gank and people still won't react
Anyone playing league likes to suffer. Being a jungle main is just a special kind of self-loathing. Lol
Phreak once said something in regards to that. Sometimes they have to buff roles even though they consider them balanced simply because no one wants to play them. That is what happened to Support back then, and it worked. 

Jungle has always been a never ending cycle. Junglers farm to much and become Monsters without having to fight enemys? Nerf jungle gold and XP! Junglers Start perma ganking because jungle is worthless!! Laners complain about that, nerf all of jungle. Junglers stop playing their role because it feels awful and they are simply tired? Buff jungle!

At this point, we are just here to suffer.
What’s the 4 key for?
It's not the same as top, but it's very far from the only option. If a jungle is only ganking bot, they're either lazy, braindead, crap at the role, or all of the above.
Hell yeah, I wish you luck, homie.
Emotional
Your early game sets the stage which is why I described the need to get a gold lead via kills to accelerate your build to keep up on clear. If you end up not picking up any gold advantage against faster junglers, they'll continue to outpace, and instant clear junglers tend to be the favorite in solo queue because they free you up to pressure objectives, counter gank, etc.  


If you can get the gold there's not an issue. The issue is getting there, which is why he isn't a favorite pick is what I was saying.
I do actually and solo queue league of legends is not a fucking strategy game. 
Tell me with a straight face you go into every game coordinating teamcomp with your 4 randos. And then have them actually listen to you. Every game you play. And then, with the chat that can get you banned for almost anything, try and cohesively type while playing the game to play out your strategies. 

If you think that’s how this game is played idk what game you’ve been playing but that’s not how this game goes.
[deleted]
bro ur literally crying over how "weak" a role is in a video game and you're telling me im emotional xd get over it, or at least cry abt smth correct, calling jg the least rewarding role gotta be the most delusional take ive heard here in a while
Yeah yeah go there
I believe they meant that red side had been flipped 180 which is indeed true
"Bro", who are you quoting when you say "weak"? Cause it's not me. If that's the most delusional take you've heard in a while, you've got to have anaduralia or something cause you must not hear yourself talk. Like I said earlier, everything you're trying to argue about quite literally no one has said. I said jungle gets the most nerfs out of any role. That's completely true. I'm not talking about items or anything else. There is no other lane in its entirety that gets the same treatment. As far as jungle being unrewarding? That's still very true. You can have the highest kda, get all the objectives, shut down the enemy carry, and do everything right, but if your team doesn't win, you'll still blamed by your top laner and their duo cause you didn't baby sit top lane while they ran it down and ignored your warning pings. "Blame jungle" is literally a meme at this point. And you still have to put in the most effort to learn your role? There's a reason why it has the least queues worldwide and why 9 time out of 10 if you get auto filled, you're in jungle. 

Now I don't know why you're so dead set on trying to argue points no one was talking about or what's going on in your life that makes you think looking to pick arguments about a videogame with people on the internet will bring you some kind of satisfaction, but I sincerely hope it gets better. 

You have a nice night, homie
Yes I will go to again how over 90% of the player base plays. Because when millions upon millions of players play differently than the 100 they have in the pro scene those are the people who matter. And that is who the game is made for, because those are the people who play the game.
>Cause it's not me

from your previous comment:

"Yup, they sure did. Because the role has to suffer because of how the game is fundamentally built. Jungle is by far the least rewarding role, but there's just something so euphoric about getting it right. Something akin to a living game of chess where every move matters, and the more steps ahead of the enemy you are, the higher your chances of winning. It's the James Moriarty of roles."

>I said jungle gets the most nerfs out of any role

and i said no, you're objectively wrong, jungle got nerfed and some of it got reverted like next patch

>There is no other lane in its entirety that gets the same treatment

adc got it worse

>As far as jungle being unrewarding? That's still very true

objectively wrong, jungle is the most rewarding role for 99% of the playerbase that's below gm, gm+ is where jungle becomes weaker, in low elo jungle is the best role by far and being good at jungle will take you way farther than being good at other roles besides support.

>you'll still blamed by your top laner and their duo

this one alone proves that you're low elo, the fact that you even mentioned a duo. also, how is getting blamed equivalent to not being rewarding? easier climb is the reward you get for getting good at jungle, no other role is nearly as good at carrying pre gm as jungle is.

>And you still have to put in the most effort to learn your role?

that's somewhat true, but its overexaggerated, jungle is not that much harder, its hard for newbies to the game but if you're not a newbie then learning jungle isnt gonna take you eons.

>There's a reason why it has the least queues worldwide and why 9 time out of 10 if you get auto filled, you're in jungle. 

no, there's a reason adc and support are autofill protected and not jungle, at least that's the case on euw and eune, before pets were added I'd get autofilled to jungle no matter which role i picked (which i didnt a lot considering i myself main jungle), but after pets i got autofilled from jungle to other roles constantly, now its more balanced, I usually get autofilled to adc on side accs and sup on main.

>looking to pick arguments about a videogame with people

braindead take, im not looking to argue, i just shit on idiots for being idiots, but you're gonna talk like "big one in the conversation" while still being the kid that's crying about the strongest role in their elo getting nerfed.

spoiler alert, if you're anywhere below masters, jungle nerfs wont affect you, nor the map changes, you guys cant even play jungle properly enough, these nerfs arent the reason you're 52% winrate silver 2
You understood that I'm provoking you at this point right?
Aham
Wtf is this champion riot
Okey so i picked up aurora on my main in diamond 2 and this does not feel okey. So far 69% wr 16 games. I completely 1v9 all mid/late teamfights being basically unkillable without any utility/defensive items. Jungle feels like her best role. Will continue the grind later today. 
The fact this comes after 2 back to back Jungle clear nerfs in PBE to cap her monster damage is Diabolical
played vs her as support once, she was completely useless for 20 minutes but at some point just started oneshotting me and it felt like there's little to no counterplay
Wait you arent building mana cause it’s jg that’s genius. Howver isnt ludens still just a great item overall? Also, why build stormsurge when every other item is much better
what a shock! a released broken champion!

  
I still remember the launch of Aatrox...
Wait people are running her Jung?  Imma flash of a cliff wtf are we doing riot
she needs hotfix nerfs asap
I dont understand why her god forsaken ult is a nuke???
Honestly I think its mainly due to people not knowing how to deal with her. You simply need to bully her in lane or she gets strong (similar to vlad). Her ult is rather underwhelming I've found (most abilities allow you to leave and everyone can walk in to frontline). so far I've not been stomped by her but have co-carried 2 games hard with an aurora. She feels better than what I expected after her abilities reveal
Riots being Riots.
Went against her in top lane recently. Start of lane phase wasn’t too bad. Killed her twice but wasn’t able to fully capitalize off it just due to other factors. But once she got any gold it was pretty much gg
Didn’t you peak GM tho? Like I’m sure she still feels strong in the jungle but I think a lot of this is just you being a better player than the people in those D2 games. I’m not hating I’m just saying also isn’t her clear early game really bad ?
She's a new champ she will be nerfed and forgotten about soon enough 🤣 and that's when I'll start playing her mwahaha
[removed]
Can u please send me your account op.gg so I see how u build orders, runes in details .. ty in advance bro !
She’ll get the Qiyana soon
But ya I called her being a jungle bully when I saw her first spotlight.  I got told to kms because she was obviously made to be a mid and I was being stupid. 

Yup -.-
[removed]
what's your build order for jungle? which smite do you go with?
You know what her kit is, ofc she’s broken especially on release
Her ult is def so balanced!! I would want to thank to the rioter who tought about that ult ^^ so balanced that an ability which gives so much utility such as locking ALL enemies in a small area and dealing tons of dmg!!
wait shes a jungler? i didnt even care she was released
I mean what are you complaining about ? you found a character you like and are doing good with her enjoy it.
First timing this in ranked
What rank?
Do you think riot really cares about *balancing* lol
What are some good jgl counters to her?
I blame rito parek. It's literally his job to handle game balance and make sure this kind of thing does not happen.

I've played against her JG twice and destroyed her both times. Then again I main JG tanks & morgana so that might have something to do with it.
Ik right Taliyah is insanely broken man
Doesn’t she feel like diff characters things just thrown together in a mess? The invis feels like entirely too much
what's the build? wanna try it on the smurf xd
Yeah, i got her too, she's broken already
Least broken newly released champion:
I was hoping aurora would be a good jungler. her ganks seems potent and her abilities lend to quick clears but Ive been playing with a friend who only plays aurora so I havent had the chance to give it a shot.
This is why I ALWAYS ban new champs as a rule and systematically
She just came out give it more time and her win rate are going to be lower
I'll be grinding aurora every game I can blind picking her to limit test. Am live 8hrs a day or so at Twtich. It's weewee\_g0d.
Thighs
Over buffed to make sure she sells (yes people still will spend cash for champions) then nerf to normalcy a month later
What is your current buildpath and why?
I see her R as a Mord R but the team can participate which can be extremely dangerous depending on team comps
Why are newly released champs allowed in rank wtf
It's there new champ. Ppl won't buy it if it isn't OP. Once sales drop it will be nurfed  This has been the trend for the almost 14 years I have played.
What amazes me even more is that you got to pick her 5 ranked games in a row without her getting banned lol
That's league for you
Honestly as a Wukong OTP I'm hating how much better her w is than Wukong's w.


She has 3 wall hops in her kit, 2/3 slows, max hp% dmg, missing hp% dmg and move speed.


She is so mobile and high dmg without having to try
Lmao i thought it was Sett
Literally not a very broken champion like she does not do huge damage as compared to champion with similar kit to her, she's balanced I would say. I also expected her ult to be a little more frightening that this
Thank you for not building roa
[removed]
So what is better? Electrocute or dark harvest?
its a new champion, its expected to be 10x better than anything else and people dont know how to play against it yet
Why are they in such a rush to release broken champs?
I had like 65% winrate on shyv jng in like 20 games and she was a 47% wr champion. 10-20 games is way too low of a sample sized.

What i am curious tho, how is her first clear? Is she fast and healthy enough to go for crab, or do you do full clear into base?
It's a new champ and the average person doesn't understand how to play against champs they have never or barely seen.
IMO we shouldn't get up in arms about this kind of performance just yet, as people who don't play on the PBE are still adjusting to her kit! Not everyone knows what her weaknesses or damage ranges are, and that can make her very scary to encounter and thusly encourage misplays. She is definitely strong, but I think we would be jumping the gun to jeer for nerfs already.
Probably not because she's busted, but because no-one really knows how to counter her. She's quite squishy early and is prone to invades.
Haven't even seen that champion. #BanAutism
Why don’t people build kralen slayer on her? Her passive is: every 3th aa deals increased dmg. So why people building burn shi or that things and not kraken slayer, wich makes every 3th aa deal bonus dmg? Don’t get me started on kog builds
They will reign her in over time and I think she will be barely played after, but that's just my prediction. Can't spare my ban for her. Shaco is more important to permaban.
She has 47% winratio on OP.GG XDDD and she is midlaner
pisslow elo sub masters, not impressive
Its a flashier version of teemo jungle! :D
Fuckin diabolical
her ult is pretty much undodgable with incredibly high scaling, R is the win button + she can go invisible just cause fuck you. Just checked, her R damage is higher than Diana R with better scaling, what a joke.
tyyuyyyyyyyyytyytyyyyyyyytyyyytyyuyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyytyyyyyy
Stormsurge gives movement speed + a bit more burst during a lackluster early game while being relatively cheap.
Ye, ludens feels good even though mana isn’t needed. Stormsurge ms is really nice though for some extra distance during stealth and a nice burst.
You don’t need mana on her even when you lane.
The 1v5 tower dive and after getting triple kill, u see his hp drops to 0. Just when u breathe a sign of relief thinking his threat is over....

You see his health bar regen and now he is coming for the Ace and penta
I don’t know if you guys remember Yasuo’s release in PBE, where his W was blocking turret shots as well and they took it out lol
Xin zhao on release…
Eh, I prefer them being broken on release. Not the horror start Ornn got
her ult irritates me so much 😭 why is it a big, fat, kind of undodgeable AOE that traps me inside but before I can even defend myself I die to two auto attacks after that nuke anyways??
Agree, think dmg should be half and CD double. XD
It’s not easy to bully a jungle especially if they know what they’re doing
>You simply need to bully her in lane

she's the one doing the bullying
I’m not sure she can be bullied that hard in lane tbh. I laned vs Irelia mid, both of us with ignite, and proceeded to solokill the Irelia 4 times in lane, even easily outplaying the classic lvl 6 all in thanks to my ult easily placing me back to my turret.
Her ratios make Vlad's look like a joke
Vlad is a lane bully and weak after now
Peak on EUW is 385lp master. Eune 900lp but thats s6. Currently stuck in diamond with 50% wr. Trying to come back to high elo and trying her out there. Clear feels OK.
I played her randomly yesterday in Jungle without knowing her abilities and was able to full-clear by 3:20. For context, I main WW and with him I also full-clear around 3:20 *if* I do it right, and he has one of the slowest jungle clears among non-offmeta junglers.

Basically, her jungle clear isn't terrible and is probably really good if actually optimized.
Yeah I think her ult does way too much damage. It’s like dropping a nuke in the middle of a team fight. It also doesn’t help that people spend more time trying to run out of the inescapable circle in panic mode than they do just focusing on the fight. I feel like Riot will be adjusting her numbers next patch on the ult for sure.
[https://u.gg/lol/profile/euw1/soldmykids4rp-tv%C3%A4t/overview](https://u.gg/lol/profile/euw1/soldmykids4rp-tv%C3%A4t/overview)
Kit feels meant to be jg imo
He specifically mentioned that she’s really good in team fights. That she doesnt need to waste gold on defense items and still do a lot of damage without being easy to catch. Jungle (as long as you know how to macro） allows u to be safer than any lane so you get over her “weak” early game
If u are interested about the champ I’ll be playing her live at twitch. It’s weewee_g0d
She has crazy amount of dmg and his hard to kill
[https://u.gg/lol/profile/euw1/soldmykids4rp-tv%C3%A4t/overview](https://u.gg/lol/profile/euw1/soldmykids4rp-tv%C3%A4t/overview)
Champ release date diff
No she's not lol, but riot did a whoopsie and here we are
Same
These games were in diamond 2. Currently my elo hell
Found champs running u down being annoying such as volibear and master yi.
True
Most fun i think is luden>shadowflame>raba>void + mejai
I think it's the opposite. Her winrate will increase as people pick her up
Because you can permanently ban them
That was a one time thing
Dog item
Started playing liandrys>shadowflame>rabadon now

otherwise for full burst it's 

ludens>shadowflame > rabadon
Electrocute for sure
One person having a winstreak != broken champ. But even if she is in fact broken, determining how strong a champ is before release is really hard. I guarantee even if Riot sometimes makes mistakes, they do a better job than 99% of the playerbase would.
Agree, I will conitunue playing her and make a update. First clear is around 3:20 and i go for hp pot to contest scuttle.
Depends on enemy jungle pathing and prio in lanes as all junglers. U never win while outnumbered at lvl 4 even though u are full health
A new champion is always regarded as op vs a dead trash tier shyvanna with a simple fair champion kit. Vs whatever this riot convention of balanced is for their all new champs.
True, but you come from stealth instantly oneshotting u and jumps back to stealth
Wtf
she is my perma ban right now no matter what role im playing
+1 bro
Skarner had worse winrate than her after his rework and he rised to OP tier top and jungle after playerbase learned to play him. This is common trend in modern League that Riot releases gimmick champions with overtuned kits and low winrate, because they need to be figured out by the playerbase.
Trueee
Oi Ue
Aurora ult dealing more damage than Diana ult is actually fcked up
Higher than Diana damage, full team Camille value and pacman mobility is fine trust
AP Jarvan coming in HOT
Also u have R for every fight because of like 70s cd after ultimate hunter and 20 ability haste
honestly bro I felt that
I tried out rn a few games of lindry riftmaker, why arent you building that? What is the reason behind your build
Remember, that Aatrox is just 4 kills away now.
Oh man I miss that old passive so much. I started playing AP Aatrox right before the rework and it was gone forever
Akali invis under turret
I played league back in 2013 and 2014 and he was still terror inducing far after his nerf
Champs weak on release don't get played and don't get players to return to the game. It's terrible for retention and balance bc they have no way of knowing what is/isn't working for that champ
holy ... mb I didn't see this was in jungle mains yeah then it's a different story. Maybe I'll try her out, how is her clear? 

sorry for the oversight
Actually very easy to bully jungles if you can get your support to roam.
just need to remind Aurora off her absent father, thatll hit her
Her bully is insane, like 1q and she proc electrocute then run back, can't even trade with her because of a dash + invisible on short cd
from what I've seen artillery mages and poke are the main ways to counter her. Her passive makes her decent in full engages
Ahhh I see, I didn’t know that my bad man
Ok I didn’t know that I thought her clear was worse then that, cuz she got a ton of jg nerfs before being shipped to live servers. If it’s the case she might get even more jg nerfs
feels like there should be a hotfix honestly not waiting until next patch
can't run out of the inescapable circle when i die before I can even attempt it, it's such a big fat nuke 😭😭
Agree she has a  shaco type kit.   Problem is riot wants her kid and they will do what they did to Qiyana and nerf her jungle hard.
[removed]
Oeh nice! I've been back to league after a 5 year break and I'm trying to pick up jungle. Always fun to learn from streams :)!

(Little noob question because I rarely use twitch, can you watch vods back?)
Were do you go when you play her jung or mid?
Lol okay bud. Calm down. There is obviously more to this than a single player's win streak... Nice strawman though?

I don't think you understand what Riot's incentives are here. They certainly have an incentive to release champs in a very strong state. It's not as simple as "Riot sometimes makes mistakes".
Can you upload it? Because my fav past time is min maxing jungle clears, and I can’t close to anything like this even starting raptors or red
Twitch, Evelyn?
The champion has autism in the lore, haha I was a little confused too.
Ofc she is low winrate. She is new champion and people are adjusting and learning her.
Omelandah dun noked up mi woife end took mi bluddy son
Not saying she's not broken, but the only comparison to Diana's ult is that it's an Aoe. As an ult, there's not really a fair comparison at the moment. It's a cage like Camille's or words, but does continously damage and is not the easiest to escape.


Diana's offers a pull and huge damage as well. You'd have to look at the whole kit instead of just the ult
But what about the flavor, don't you think of a point blank Ziggs ultimate when you think of rabbits?
What's the point in killing them slowly when you can kill them instantly
Burst dmg
Jax dodging turret shots
Glad someone remembers it lol. Everyone was shocked when they announced it and using it was both fun and broken
Es 4under turretunder turret
Akali was shipped to live as well
Old akali with sunfire, iceborn gauntlet and spirit visage tho one’s shotting you
Really?? I don’t remember that
Clear looks average if he's this fed and only maxing out 7.5 cs/min. To put it into perspective, when I'm playing on my smurf I can hit 10cs+ on Brand when he's 7.5-8 on average and the fastest AP Jungle clearers right now are Shyvana and Diana (Who can 8-8.5 on average)
Not if they’re in their own jungle and has a reactive team with good vision
Imagine ur support plays around you
Might be because I’m often playing tilted for 8-10hrs straight cuz I’m streaming instead of jumping to a different acc. I feel like I don’t belong here during my first games of the days
No problem; I agree her current clear is surprising!
I haven’t played her personally yet but here is my thought on why to learn her in jungle assuming she’s this strong.

AP junglers are meta and strong. Lillia is a top tier AP jungle and Aurora seems like she is a different version of Lillia, in the sense that they both start kinda weak but excel in team fighting. Slippery and tough to lock down, Lillia move speed v.s Auroras multiple hops and stealth. Lillia ganks pre 6 and pre 1st item aren’t the best, id wager this also describes Aurora. She probably also has enough aoe to quickly and healthily take grubs solo too.

She can be good for the same reason Lillia has been as S tier jungle and remains strong despite nerfs. Id play her the same way, just take some safe full clears and get to 6 and 1st item asap. The great thing with AP junglers that excel in team fights is that they can still be very effective team fights even when behind.
Yes you can, last 7 days
Does anything in my response imply I'm not calm? And riot has released multiple champs that were too weak upon release and needed buffs. It can in fact be true that "riot sometimes makes mistakes". Balance is hard. Most players who criticize riot probably couldn't do better in their place.
You answered your own question. This has also been confirmed by Riot themselves that they have the intention of making a strong character on release and then tuning it down, because they want people to play the new champ 

If they release an underturned champ and then buff it to balanced, most people didn't try her and most people won't try her now either. We could think differently but they obviously have the statistics here

So yeah. She might be a bit easier to deal with in the coming days but her damage is probably overtuned and will get nerfed down a bit and then she'll be alright i guess
Want a short YouTube vid?
I usually go raptor-Krug- red to be able to hit 5 at first base with a hextech alternator. But you can see how I clear live or at some VOD. Twtv weewee_g0d
Of course riot is trying to cash in on trending disorders .. late stage capitalism is going to get weird lol.
Wait really? Lmao that’s such a random thing
[deleted]
Jax dodging *fountain*
It was before I played League, but I’ve found a lot of archived complaints about her W being able to do that after her rework. Afaik it’s the main reason why towers give truesight now
Wait till you learn that her Q healed her, her ultimate didnt have a target cast, but you could cast anywhere, and if you hit someone, the first cast of R would stun for like 0.1 sec, just enough to land a free E, and you could also be invisble under turret.
True but then again being really fed often leads to neglecting farm as you can just take their camps sometimes and get obj/kills for gold
Honestly thats 1/10 games 😂
We can all dream.
I’ve never hit “Apex elo” I’m just D4-D3 but I feel like that’s normal to feel like you don’t belong when your playing after a long break as you said you were active in high elo in s6 and now it’s Season 14 so I feel like that’s totally normal
Yea I tried it out in practice took a few times and I got it down to 3:15 which is good for sure
Okay, you're just repeating the same points from your last comment. Have a good one.
Sure
Womp womp womp
they already gave true sight, her shroud just wasn't revealed by true sight. you could see a shaco running at you with q or a vayne tumbling during ult or any other invis you can think of, akali's shroud was just a random exception
Wait…you are still talking about the time she got reworked right?
That's actually usually the opposite of what happens. Being fed means you farm quicker, especially in the jungle.
thats 0/10 tbh
Yeah I usually ping my team like crazy 😂
Gl with the grind man
Wow, that makes me really glad I didn’t play back then
She went through a LONG series of nerfs after the rework. They took waaaay too long because riot wanted her in proplay.
yup, here's the spotlight from years ago at the time of her rework: [https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=b-s2YVbRP8I](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=b-s2YVbRP8I)
True stealth baby, because having stealth, and camouflage wasnt enough, we needed third type of stealth.

Btw a huge part that was changed is, her W used to force drop auto attacks, even enchanted ones, so you'd play shit like garen or Nasus, she'd Q you, you'd press Q to hit her back andddd your animation would get denied.

Imagine the fun, when your tower doesn't help you, and you can't use a strong part of your kit
I think I can hear people tilt when she was doing all the stuff that was mentioned before :P
Did we win?
I just hopped on prime to watch another episode and I think we did it????

Hello! Thanks for posting. This is a reminder about the rules. Make sure the post is appropriate and not to delegate or go against Reddit policy or r/Markiplier Rules. If this does break rules, please report it immediately. Posts that encourage raids on other subs or platforms is a bannable offense.

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/Markiplier) if you have any questions or concerns.*
How do you see this? I never knew prime actually had a top 10 list


Edit: i found it. Since Amazon doesn't apparently put it on top like every other god forsaken platform, i just never noticed it way tf down there
We haven't won until it's #1.

They doubted our ability to get it to the Top 10? Let's show them our true power!

THIS IS TO GO EVEN FURTHER BEYOND! GO NO STOP!
KEEP EDGING AND KEEP SLEEPING
Yes, but..

DON'T GET DISTRACTED

WE NEED TO KEEP GOING, MAKE IT STAY ON TOP 10

YES, WE DON'T HAVE TO MAKE IT NUMBER #1, JUST TOP 10 IS ENOUGH.. BUT WHO WILL EVEN STOP US?

WHY STOP? WHEN WE  CAN SHOW THEM OUR TRUE STRENGTH

REMEMBER, NO STOPPING, NO GIVING UP,  DON'T FORGET TO ALSO GIVE IT A LIKE AND RATE IT.

GO NO STOP GO.
Edge of Sleep is still sitting at #6. We're doing good! This is only the first day, and we've made the top 10! With spreading the word and continuously streaming, we could secure somewhere in the Top 5 easily! GO NO STOP GO NO STOP! This is for Mark, the rest of the team, and potentially something great for Iron Lung!! This fanbase is a FORCE, and they're about to find out!
Go no stop!
Not yet. We may be top ten, but Judge Judy is still ahead of us. We need to clobber her, Mark’s Orders.
Is it at number 1? No, we didn't win. GO. NO. STOP.
Will his European fans just be out of luck? Will it be the same for Iron Lung?
I think we won
Judy, when I catch you Judy
So just making sure, if we watch it multiple times on the same account those all count as views right?
Yes, we did. But now we're going to sleedge even harder, because I think we're all curious to see if we can get it to number 1.
WE NEED TO BEAT THE SHIT OUT OF JUDGE JUDY!!! DONT STOP TILL SHE STAYS DOWN
It shows on mine that it's only at number 9?
We shall continue on forward!!
Is it only America?
I’m going for another run right now! It was no 9 when I saw it. We GO NO STOP!
I just started the final episode and while waiting for the ads I opened this post, so I immediately opened Prime in a new tab to check and it's at 9th.  
  
So it seems very volatile right now it's going to take a persistent effort by us. If you're reading this comment KEEP WATCHING
Nice. But #6 seems a little low.  We should aim for #1. Take the spot from Rings of Power.
This is why Mark's response of "Just top 10?" wasn't grandiose or braggadocios.  He knew that was a low bar for his fan base.
Stay alert. Stay awake. Stay alive.
YES WE DID
Holy shit y'all are fast
don't stop until we beat judy
As high as possible for as long as possible. Keep edging your sleep.
YES WE DID IT ALREADY!!!! BUT I KNOW WE HAVE MORE IN US!!! TO NUMBER ONE WE GO, BABY!!!!!!!
We’ve gotta keep up the momentum! It’s a great start but we need to show that the show can stay up there. Marketing hasn’t even started yet, we need to keep this up for at least two weeks once it does.
at first I was like "this is kinda cheesy" but now I'm hooked honestly.
Fuck yes I'm so glad I could take part in this
 Can’t find it in my country sadly (uk)
I knew it was gonna happen even crazier there was zero marketing
It’s already number 6 and it hasn’t even been dropped outside the USA. Get ready for the second wave in 2 days. GO NO STOP!!
GONOSTOPGONOSTOPGONOSTOPGONOSTPGONOSTOPGONOSTOPGONOSTOPGONOSTOPGONOSTPGONOSTOPGONOSTOPGONOSTOPGONOSTOPGONOSTPGONOSTOPGONOSTOPGONOSTOPGONOSTOPGONOSTPGONOSTOPGONOSTOPGONOSTOPGONOSTOPGONOSTPGONOSTOPGONOSTOPGONOSTOPGONOSTOPGONOSTPGONOSTOPGONOSTOPGONOSTOPGONOSTOPGONOSTPGONOSTOPGONOSTOPGONOSTOPGONOSTOPGONOSTPGONGONOSTOPGONOSTOPGONOSTOPGONOSTPGONOSTOPGONOSTOPGONOSTOPGONOSTOPGONOSTPGONOSTOPGONOSTOPGONOSTOPGONOSTOPGONOSTPGONOSTOPGONOSTOPGONOSTOPGONOSTOPGONOSTPGONOSTOPGONOSTOPGONOSTOPGONOSTOPGONOSTPGONOSTOPGONOSTOPGONOSTOPGONOSTOPGONOSTPGONOSTOPGONOSTOPGONOSTOPGONOSTOPGONOSTPGONOSTOPGONOSTOPGONOSTOPGONOSTOPGONOSTPGONOSTOPGO
Interesting. [This rating list](https://flixpatrol.com/top10/amazon-prime/united-states/2024-10-16/) doesn’t show it. Actually shows Judy Justice went up.
GO NO STOP GO NO STOP GO NO STOP!
If you click on TEoS it says #9 in the US??? So #6 on prime and #9 overall in the us
I assume we gotta keep it in top 10 up through the 18th at least? GO NO STOP! Rewatch rewatch rewatch GO NO STOP!!!!
ONE STEP AWAY FROM DETHRONING JUDGE JUDY!!! GO NO STOP SOLDIERS
No 
We're not number 1 yet.
There's still obstacles in our way 
We can edge longer 
We can sleep longer
We mustn't stop until we get a flawless victory.

Go 
No
Stop
Wait what is this?

Markiplier has a show on Amazon Prime?
Other shows dump hundreds of thousands of dollars into marketing campaigns. Mark made the top 10 with one youtube video.
edge of sleep is currently sitting at #5 rn!!!
RATE THE SHOW ON IMBD AS WELL (and make sure to do the show not the audio version)
FIRE ICE ICE FIRE FIRE ICE FIRE ICE
Fuk yeah!
There’s no way I just looked it was nine how so quick
GO NO STOP

I am watching it today!!!
Is that only for the states because I can't find it for Canada
Oddly enough, as of writing this we still have not beat Judge Judy.
Top 6 for TV and Top 9 for the everything.
I can't find it on the UK one 😭😭😭
We must dethrone Lord of the Rings and show them our true power!! GO! NO STOP! GO!
Now we need to keep it there for two months.
GO NO STOP
NOT UNTIL WE BEAT JUDGE JUDY!
How can I watch this in the UK? It's not showing up on prime video for me.
We have watched it three times and the fence jump is still funny lol
Bro thinks he’s good enough to film in Canada but not release it here???😫
This is crazy considering it hasn't officially released yet 😂
We beat Judge Judy. That's a lovely sentence.
I’m gonna watch it when I get home heard good things from it
Damn! You guys did it already? I haven't even been able to set up my free trial yet lol
Take that Judge Judy
Number 5 as of right now!!
We still need to get it to the number one spot!
We haven’t won until we crash Amazon prime tv. GO NO STOP GO
It made it to top 5 as of right now. Finally got a chance to do my part 🫡
GO NO STOP!
Go No Stop!!!
I didn't see where it was on the list last night, but this morning when I turned it on to continue it, it had hit the #9 spot. Just finished bingeing it, and it was at the #7 spot. Soooooo good! It'll hit #1 by the end of the week.  I hope season 2 won't be too long of a wait.
Wait, Mark just announced this today (at least where I live) and it’s already number 6? I haven’t even gone to put it on my watchlist yet
We are quite literally watching (and actively being a part of) monumental cinema history right now. After this? The film industry won’t and cannot be the same. That’s why they’ve been so afraid. So yeah we did win. We won big.

Also can we talk about how this show is actually extremely well done? I was on the edge of my seat (no pun intended) the whole time. I don’t know what I was expecting but I wasn’t expecting to be this invested. I wish they had more episodes🥲
Yes, yes we did.
TWO MORE DAYS TILL THE CANADIAN INFANTRY JUMPS IN!!! MY AMERICAN ALLIES, GO NO STOP STRAIGHT TO NUMBER ONE. WE’LL BE THERE SOON AS BACKUP!!!!

Edit: NEVERMIND I JUST GOT TO THAT PART OF THE BRIEFING AND WE WILL BEGIN USING VPN MISSILES!!!
It’s number 5 now… I am scared of us
THEY MADE IT INTO A SHOW?! WHY DID NOBODY TELL ME?!
GO NO STOP GO
It isn't out in India is it ;-;
I'd say we achieved the goal, good job everyone 😎👍
LETS GOOOOO
GO NO STOP !!!!!!!!!
Bro it was so good! I loved it. Keep that creative head going Markiplier, it is doing great things!!!
Yesss!!! 🙌 

I’ve got to go check it out!!
Are those doors open yet?
YESSSSSSSSSSS
GO NO STOP
I binged it all and loved it!
For me it's number 9 in the US. Not sure how the metrics work though.
Good job sledging everyone
Wait what? Already no way 😱
GO NO. STOP GO!
Man i really wish it was able to watch WORLD WIDE because even here in UK i cant even watch it. Some VPNs don’t even allow me to access it so 😭
GO NO STOP
Where do you go on Prime to see the top 10? I can only see the top 10 tv shows for shows you have to rent or buy
LITERALLY just saw this was finally out and rushed to stream it in the background while working (I'll watch it for real tonight) and saw "#9 in the US" and I had to lauuuuugh. They really doubted us????????
You got it mark #GO NO STOP GO!
GO NO STOP
GO NO STOP!
I'll watch soon! Just came home from work.
No.  We must be the best, we cannot settle for less.
GO NO STOP 🔥🔥🔥👊🔥🔥🔥
Halfway through episode 1, I like this show. Really interesting way to start the whole premise off with the fakeout of the guy falling over!
I didn’t even know it was out!!!! So excited to watch this when I get home 💅
On episode 3 now. 

Watching it even though I normally do not watch prime anymore, rather pirate it than deal with ads.
Not yet… #1, here we come…
Looks like it's also 9 of 10 in Top 10 overall
TAKE THAT, JUDGE JUDY‼️‼️‼️‼️
I think thats the win boys, lets keep it up theres still more time to turn up them numbers
keep it up you guys!!! we gotta stay strong!
It's not available in Canada EVEN THOUGH IT WAS FILMED IN VANCOUVER, BC.
We did it!!!! woo
Mission isnt over yet, soldier. Either youre first or youre last.
I’m watching it rn. Shortly into episode two and wow it’s so good!!! I didn’t listen to the podcast or the trailer so I’m going in blind lol
# KEEP SUPPORTING MARK !!!!

WE HAVE A MISSION, DON'T DIVERT!!!
Already? Dayum
HOLD THE LINE
Are we close?! Are we CLOSE?! Are WE CLOSE?!
Im not sure if the one amazon shows us is totally accurate because mine showed a very different standing. I use flixpatrol idk how accurate they are, but the website is recommended often when looking for whats being watched the most. 

https://flixpatrol.com/top10/amazon-prime/united-states/
It's also currently number 9 out of everything on the platform it would seem, let's get it to number one on both 🗣️
Wait what I thought it came out the 18th LOL
Does it help if we watch it again? That’s what I’m doing right now. Even if it doesn’t help I’m still going to watch it several times because it’s genuinely a great show.
I watched all the episodes last night. If I watch again does it count towards views or does it only count original views?
GO NO STOP GO!
If you are still in line to get the edge of sleep into the top five for TV shows stay in line!!! Don't forget to rate it on Amazon Prime and IMDB!!!
It’s at #9 right now! I just checked
Man, I wish it wasn't on a Boycott platform
OH MY GOD LAMAOSJ THATS CRAZY ALREADYYY
Full speed ahead! Clear eyes, full hearts, can’t lose! o7
This is just the US market. Wait till it drops World Wide, we will topple this list!
What are yall on I’m not even on the ground yet I just woke up 😭
Ah, I see what happened now. We're #9 overall and #6 in shows. 6 and 9....69...nice
It hasn't even been a whole day yet lmao.
Even if someone tried sabotaging him now. They must be baffled out of their socks right now
saw it at #9 just now we gotta keep going 🙏🙏
Keep edging and sleeping comrades we must make it to the top 1#
STICK TO THE THROWN OUT, DUSTED OFF PLAN!
GO NO STOP
GO NO STOP TILL ITS #1!!!
No, watch and re-watch until we get to #1
Shows it at 9 for me
It has to be top 10 worldwide, so we're close, but we can't stop!! We need to push hardest on Friday when it's globally available
definitely watching it later today
As of right now, it's hit #9 in the US according to the Amazon Prime listing!  Congratulations are in order!
We've got a point to prove, let's keep it going!
To be fair, it's amazon prime. Getting 5 views is enough to be number 1 for the year.
GO NO STOP! GO NO STOP!
We were tasked with beating Judge Judy, so absolutely not! Go no stop!
Wow, he was right. Y’all will get him #1….I’m impressed and proud. 🥹
GO NO STOP!!!
I love this community man
Where can we find this list?
We beat Judge Judy!!!
Season 2 when?
What actually IS that show? I've only heard people mention it by name and nobody ever elaborated on what it is
DON'T STOP, DREAM IT, BRING IT TO REALITYYYY
GO NO STOP!
I was literally just here to post this exact thing! It's still there!
This is insane how it’s already in the top ten and it came out YESTERDAY. Mark must be so proud haha.
GO NO STOP
Sure but lets keep it going
GO NO STOP!
Someone Uploaded it to Youtube and thats where I watched it .
Dropped to 9 but HEY, it's still top 10
GO NO STOP
GO NO STOP! GO NO STOP! GO NO STOP!
GO NO STOP!
We are number 9 in the over all top 10 that INCLUDES MOVIES!

KEEP GOING! GO NO STOP! GO
STILL NOT AVAILABLE IN CANADA AAAARGH
GO NO STOP GO!
CAN IT COME TO DANISH PRIME NOW PRETTY PLEASE
It needs to beat Judy Justice I belive
GO NO STOP!!
GO NO STOP GO
It’s out????
I check couple of minutes ago and it said "#9 in the US". However, the original goal is still met.

SO PROUD OF MARK AND THE COMMUNITY. <3
That is a actual show?
EXCEED THE PLAN! number 1 let's go!
It’s fallen down to 9!!! We gotta keep going!!!!
Is it better than day 5 from rooster teeth? The plot is identical from the description lol
GO NO STOP!!!
GO, NO STOP, GO
I’ve been watching when I can today. So happy to see this!
WE DON'T WIN UNTIL WE'RE NUMBER ONE.

GO NO STOOOOOOOOP!
Not yet, NUMBER ONE HERE WE COME
I still have to watch it and plan to, let’s get number one!
It was #9 when I looked earlier today!! We gotta keep at it so it doesn’t drop!!
GO NO STOP
GO NO STOP
JUST KEEP SLEE-GING
I can't find it in Prime Australia 😕
Keep going!!!!!!!
No it needs to be number 1. Crush the other shows
We are edging
WE MUST DETHRONE JUDGE JUDY
My brothers, Victory is not ours just yet, we still have 5 tv shows to blow out of the water!
No not yet I think we all need to rewatch it now
At number 5 for shows and number 7 overall rn. Proud of everyone.
NOOO ITS AT NUMBER 7 NOW! WE MUST BEAT LEGENDS OF VOX!!!! GO NO STOP GO!
Jesus Christ literally less than 24 hours
Gonna stream.it to play at home while I'm at work tonight! The dogs will watch it! Their views count!
What? I never knew the edge of sleep had a tv series
God i hope it comes to the UK soon. Vpn keeps getting blocked by amazon and i genuinely wanna watch this so bad. 

Not just because Markiplier made it, like the trailer from an unbiased standpoint just looks really intriguing
I’m so mad! I wanna watch it already! Come on Canada, keep up damn it!
It's number 5 now!!
WE ARE WINNING, LETS KEEP IT UP!
Be still gotta beat Judge Judy!!!
It’s at 5 rn😝
WE CAN DO MOVE MOUNTAINS!!!
We haven't won until we get it to Top 1!!!
No we didn't someone leaked it early it was supposed to be the 18th
This is also only top ten TV shows, it might need to be top 10 on the whole platform. Sadly only available in the US for now without VPN, but hopefully will launch in other places on the 18th!
Is this on prime in Canada too?
When js the Canada realse bro I gotta help
Watched 7 episodes and assuming there will be a Season 2?
Hope so as I really enjoyed it and really curious as to what happens next
We've succeeded but haven't won until we're number 1.
GO. NO STOP!
Sadly this is actually not the right top 10, there’s a different one mark himself showed where it’s overall top, so THAT, is what we need to beat
Lmao it’s so wild how the fans blasted TEOS to the top 10 without any official advertising and being only released in the US. I’m watching for a second time today 😌 hoping we get an even higher production quality season 2.
It hit top 5 when I just checked
Where is it?
GO NO STOP
We gotta Stay Wake, Stay Alert, Stay Alive GO NO STOP GO
Top 6 with no adverts yet??? Lets go! For our God King, MARKIPLIER! ❣️
We beat the crap out of Judy lmao
GO NO STOP!
EDGE REAL HARD, SLEEP REAL GOOD, AND WATCH THE SHOW! 

I FEEL LIKE I COULD RIP DOWN A MOUNTAIN!!!
It is now number five but we cannot stop
GO NO STOP!
GO NO STOP GO NO STOP GO NO STOP
Isn't this only Amazon prime shows? It needs to be in the top 10 across the board after the 18th
Markepliar has a show???
The show is actually super good. Ton of Utopia vibes
Watched it earlier today with my partner. It was alright. I would say about on-par with the audio drama. Not brilliant, but a fun concept with some really cool moments. It's kind of difficult to see Mark in a live-action role beyond the With Markiplier series though. Like, he's fine, I had no real issues with him, but I could only see him as Mark. It felt a bit less distracting when it was just his voice in the original series.

The final episode is the best part though. I love how they play around with the format and just go wild with the editing.

Overall, I felt like some parts were a bit awkward (the design/costume/makeup of "the elephant" was a little strange. Like, I kind of saw what they were going for, but you really had to stare at it to see what it was), but I'm interested to see what season 2 might bring.
GO NO STOP
I’m watching right now it was at 7 when I started. In to episode 4 ;)
GO NO STOP! GO NO STOP!
Holy! That’s awesome didn’t think it’d be possible with how hard they tried to push it down
SLEDGE, SLEDGE, SLEDGE, SLEDGE!
Nearly 12 hours later, and we're #4

#1 - LotR: Rings of Power. This is kinda to be expected.

#2 - Tulsa King. A Sylvester Stallone series that's actually pretty good

#3 -  Citadel Diana. Some Italian series. Not really versed on this one. 

Cracking top 3 before Friday actually seems very possible.  Not sure we'll beat anything that people tie to Tolkien for the #1 spot though.
Currently at #4
EDGE REAL HARD
Yes.
it’s at 4 now lol
he made a show?? when??
I’m still waiting for season 2
It’s number 5 now
And climbing!!! #4 rn!
it’s at #4 now!!
Wish I could watch this but I’m in Australia
GO NO STOP!!!!! #1 HERE WE COME!!!!
Still climbing says it's at #5 on my screen. Wahooooo
Is it good or is it there solely because it's Markiplier?
It's not in Aus yet :(
Ayy look at that! He beat Judge Judy AND more out of the park!
Take that Judy.
It’s not in the UK?
Still having issues with my VPN but ima keep trying cos we ain’t at no.1 

We got this GO NO STOP
Damn and the rest of us outside the US havent even watched it yet
LETS GO FOR GOOOOLD (…on friday)
I just checked we're in 4th now. 😆
We won battle but not the war we need him to get to number
WE ALWAYS WIN
WHOO LETS GOO!
Is this unavailable in Europe?!
It's #5 now, go no stop
We gotta make sure it stays in the top 10 when it gets released internationally. Show them it’s not just a US audience fluke!
We gotta keep it there for a month. Keep watching. I've already watched it 3 times
It's not good enough to stay at the top
The 1st episode intro, before mark wakes up that montage was wayyyy too long and unnecessary.
If you go to TV shows and scroll a bit down it shows you the top 10!! I looked on the app and not on my TV tho so the format may change depending on what device you use
I had to just search for the show cause I couldn’t find it lol
GO NO STOP
FIRE ICE ICE FIRE FIRE ICE FIRE ICE!
You already won by beating Judge Judy.
GO NO STOP!
This is what it meaaans !
NOW YOU WILL SEE MY FINAL FORM
Well give it to the rest of the world then
GO NO STOP
I CANT STOP EDGING
I EDGE EVERYDAY. Wait
Pause.
GO NO STOP!
GO NO STOP GO!
Instructions unclear. I am now sitting in the back of a cop car for attempting to assault Judge Judy.
GO NO STOP GO
Have it streaming now. GO NO STOP. 🚫🛑
This needs more pounding fists onto podium energy
GO NO STOP
GO NO STOP
GO NO STOP
GO NO STOP GO!
WE GOTTA "STAY" ON HIGH RANK

NOT JUST GOING , CONQUER
THIS IS WHAT IT MEANS TO GO EVEN FURTHER BEYOND
Go NO STOP
GO NO STOP GO
Where did the extra 'GO' come from? Everybody is saying it but the phrase is 'GO NO STOP!'...right?
GO NO STOP
GO NO STOP!
I already watched it but a rewatch for Mark is simple to do!!!
GO NO STOP GO
Don't stop, believin\`\~

Hold on to that feelin\~
GO NO STOP GO!!!!
GO NO STOP GO NO STOP
GO NO STOP!!
GO NO STOP GO!
GO NO STOP
GO NO STOP
GO NO STOP GO!!!!
GO NO STOP GO!
GO NO STOP!!
GO NO STOP GO!
GO NO STOP
GO NO STOP!!!
GO NO STOP GO!
GO NO STOP GO!!!
GO NO STOP GO!!!
Why stop when we could show them what it is TO GO EVEN FURTHER BEYOND
GO NO STOP GO!!
GO NO STOP GO!
GO NO STOP!!!!!!!!
𝓖𝓪𝓻𝓭𝓮𝓷 𝓗𝓸𝓼𝓮
GO NO STOP GO
GO NO STOP!
GO NO STOP
GO NO STOP GO
GO NO STOP GO.
GO NO STOP GOOOOOOOOOOO
GO NO STOP GO‼️
Instructions unclear....resuming going and not stopping, Captain.
#GO NO STOP 
#GO NO STOP 
#GO NO STOP 
#GO NO STOP 
#GO NO STOP 
#GO NO STOP 
#GO NO STOP 
#GO NO STOP 
#GO NO STOP 
#GO NO STOP 
#GO NO STOP 
#GO NO STOP 
#GO NO STOP 
#GO NO STOP 
#GO NO STOP 
#GO NO STOP 
#GO NO STOP 
#GO NO STOP 
#GO NO STOP 
#GO NO STOP 
#GO NO STOP 
#GO NO STOP 
#GO NO STOP 
#GO NO STOP 
#GO NO STOP 
#GO NO STOP 
#GO NO STOP 
#GO NO STOP 
#GO NO STOP 
#GO NO STOP 
#GO NO STOP 
#GO NO STOP
GO NO STOP GO!
GO NO STOP GO
Fun fact, mark has more subscribers than there are active members in every military in the world! GO NO STOP!!!
As of 9pm central it is at #5!

Edit: #5 overall in the US, #4 in shows in the US.
We've beaten the judge!!!
Seems like it doesn't it.
I've been playing around all day trying to sort out VPN to try and watch it with no luck.
What I can say is that AirVPN does not work. Amazon just flat out blocks it. Of course, that very VPN does allow me to still watch it, only without supporting Mark. Which is fucked up because I even have an active Prime subscription and I´d watch the hell out of it. Come on Amazon, just release it in europe and all is fine!
It should be out on October 18th everywhere else.
Opera has free VPN. It's pretty basic but you can select your continent and hope you get lucky. They have a paid more in depth version, which does have a free trial!
Nord VPN worked for us (NL)! Just finished watching!
Nope I’m using a VPN, GO NO STOP
"I win. *YAAAAYYYYY* 🎉🎉🎉" -Markiplier
I think they calculate first watches and rewatches slightly differently, but they both should factor in to the overall viewership.
I was wondering about this too
thats if you include movies
mark said to use a vpn if not in america
It's 9th when including *movies AND TV*! For TV, it's 6th. Thats pretty amazing
Right? It’s so good that it pulls you into the story. That opening song is living rent free in my head and I’m loving every second of it.
This only updates once a day from what it seems
There’s no reason to look at an external site when Amazon compiles the rankings itself. It’s 6th and 9th on the Top 10 TV shows in the US and Top 10 (overall) in the US (respectively)
It is currently #6 in TV Shows and #9 when movies are included.
Yep! It’s called Edge of Sleep!!
That’s including movies too. If you just look at the top ten tv shows, it’s number 6
The early release is just US, it's unclear if it will be international on the 18th.
It’s #6 in just tv shows and #9 if you factor in movies. Either way we got it but we shouldn’t settle for mediocrity when we can get the top spot 😈
Nevermind I see it!!! So proud of this community!! No one has ever edged better <3
shhhhhh no spoilers
Amazon’s rankings are more accurate than an external site is going to be. I don’t believe you saw “a very different standing”—you probably just looked at a different list. The Top 10 in the US has Edge of Sleep at #9. This is overall on Prime. It is #6 on the Top 10 *tv shows* in the US.
Yes.
That’s including movies. It’s at number 5 for shows now! It’s actually trending upward but STILL. GO NO STOP GO!
It’s honestly good
I used my app and finally found it thank you lol. Time to dethrone RoP
not even just on TV shows, we made it to #9 on all of Prime now so it's on the home category!
It's harder to find because it's "not released yet" according to some people. But it's there!
GO NO STOP GO!
FIRE ICE ICE FIRE FIRE ICE FIRE ICE!
TO GO EVEN FURTHER BEYOND!!!
EDGE REAL HARD
EDGE MORE. EDGE EVERY HOUR
Resume.
GO NO STOP GO!
GO NO STOP GO!
GO DOG GO
Go! No stop, Go!
Listen man, don't beat up the person that could try you in court the same day
Lmfao this actually made me laugh so hard I sounded like kettle going off, thanks for the good laugh
Take my upvote that was brilliant
Just started streaming! GO NO STOP! GO NO STOP!
GO NO STOP!
GO GO GO NO STOP GO!
AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA

*wind swooshes*

AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAHHHHHH!
GO NO STOP
No idea, it might have been said at some point, but  go no stop is the main bit
That's mind bending.
I live the UK and I've been using nordvpn and it's worked
It depends on the IP address. Most VPNs have many, so reconnect to get a new one and try again. 

TunnelBear works for me, but I only tried one connection so far and watched two episodes. Some of the IPs are likely blocked.
I got windscribe to work for free, just back out when it asks about the Pro stuff
Oh No 😞
It worked for me when I logged on in a web browser, wouldn't work through the app, might have tried this already but hope you manage it!
Nope, Qcode said they hope to release it internationally eventually if it does well in the US.
Mark said in his latest video that everyone outside the US needs a VPN to watch it
I tried the one integrated in Opera GX and it gets detected.
I watched it on a friend’s account and now I’m about to watch it again through my own. I need more of the story!
in tv shows in the us its #6
Aaaahhhh adds up lol. Thanks!
VPNs don't change Prime video if i'm not mistaken
Ah okay. I didn't notice the distinction. But yes it's awesome but also I personally had no doubt we could get it in there lol
I can only see the top 10 overall. How do you check the top 10 tv shows list?
Cool! Is it available in the UK or just America?

^(also what's the age rating?)
That’s awsome
It is US only, even on the 18th. Qcode mentioned on twitter they hope to release it internationally eventually if the series does well in the US.
It would really suck if it was US only, but I think watching it once with NordVPN's free trial is possible
Thank you
Happy cake day!
I meant more that I think Amazon's list on my home page is more algorithm based.
Looks like killer Cakes is already out!
GO NO STOP GO!
GO NO STOP GO!
Army of lovers - crucified starts playing in my head as I read each comment
GO CHICA GO GO GO GO GO CHICA GO GO GO GOOOOO
Oh no, I hope that episode doesn’t boost her show to #1
Just joined the party too. I'm pretty ill so it's hard to focus, but whatever, GO NO STOP! GO NO STOP!
GO NO STOP!
I feel like I'm missing something, some setting somewhere that's stopping it working
I can confirm TunnelBear works. It's the only free VPN I've found that works. Sadly it has a 2GB limit per month, so I don't think I will be able to watch the full show in one go.
Correct. If you already have a prime account, a VPN won't work cause the account is linked to the country it was created in. You'd have to make a new account with a US address AND then use a VPN
Bro I’m literally using one rn and it work on prime
So if you go to Prime Video’s main page, you see tabs like “Home”, “Movies” and “Tv Shows.” Just click TV shows and scroll down for the top 10. Or you can go to “categories” and then “tv shows”. 

Edge of Sleep is currently at #5, ahead of Judge Judy’s show.
Idk the age rating but it has some swearing and some gore. Nothing sexual. It is only available in the US at the moment, but that's nothing a VPN can't fix
You might be confusing it with recommendations or one of the general “popular shows” lists or something, but the “Top 10 in the US” or “Top 10 TV Shows” are based on views, not on anything to do with your personal algorithm.
DO NOT WATCH THE CAKE
Woohoo!!
GO NOT STOP GO!
GO NO STOP GO!
GO NO STOP GO!
GO NO STOP GO
GO NO STOP!!
Idk, I haven't done anything. All I did was download the app and connect to the USA. And boom, the prime app works on my phone
Try obfuscated servers in the US. that's the only option that's worked for me.
You need to use the american amazon website. Worked fine for me (Germany)
No. You can’t use a VPN with amazon, period. Be patient, get him the views from your country when it comes out. It’d be awful if most views came from America because people couldn’t wait 3 days. He needs the views to be a worldwide spread, no localized.
I'm just holding out hope the 18th is the international release date
Not true, I created mine a while a ago in Finland and I was able to watch it. I think some VPNs just don't work. I did change my existing account address to the white house just in case but the only thing that seemed to matter was, which VPN I was using and selecting a setting that blocks all non-VPN connections.

&#x200B;

For those who need it, I used Turbo VPN on android and in my phones VPN settings I turned on "Always-on VPN" and "Block connections without VPN"
really? how?
It was rated pg14
GO NO STOP
GO NO STOP GO!
What, erklärs mir als wäre ich ein 5 jähriges Kind wie ich das jetzt machen muss
Not true. NordVPN's obfuscated servers are fine and work. Set the obfuscated server to the US, reload prime and watch away!
According to Qcode, the show isn't coming out internationally on the 18th at all. It's just the public release date int he US, but the fans found it early. If it does good numbers in the US, there's a chance it will get an international release in the future.
It doesn't seem like it. Qcode said on twitter they hope to eventually release it internationally if the views are good in the US :(
Maybe it works on phones. I'm not using a phone, but a desktop PC. There might be a difference. 
Idk it says show unavailable, then I activate my VPN and then I can watch it
GO NO STOP
GO NO STOP GO!
Am einfachsten ist es, den VPN auf USA umzustellen und amazon über Google zu suchen und zu öffnen. Damit landest du automatisch auf der amerikanischen Seite. Da loggst du dich wie gewohnt ein und dürftest Zugriff auf die Show haben!
Wait, what?

Why make it dependent of views on the US to release internationally?

Licensing costs can't be that high
considering its no6 according to this post I hope that persuades them to release it internationally.
I'm in UK using Express VPN and I can watch on PC. Maybe double check that you are on the American version of the website? Hope you figure something out that works for you or they at least release it internationally later if you want to watch \^\^
interesting. Are you perhaps using a web version of prime and not an app?
GO NO STOP GO!
GO NO STOP GO!
In case it flopped, I'm guessing. A lot of tv shows has flopped recently and cost an insane amount of money to produce but not even earning a fraction of it back. Even high profile shows like Star Wars has flopped in recent months.
I sure hope so too!
Maybe it's just free VPNs that won't work for me and I can't afford to pay for one cause I'm going to 2 comic cons in two different countries in November, so I have to save my money T\_T
No I’m a using the prime video app on IOS 18
GO NO STOP GO!
GO NO STOP GO!
Because they have been making bad shows or shows that just aren’t interesting enough to catch people’s attention. Mark has already got our attention and that ending…. I refuse to let this be anything but #1.
Maybe. But have fun on your comic con trips!
GO NO STOP GO!
GO NO STOP GO!
Yeah, but the prideful and stuck up asses of Hollywood firmly believe there's nothing wrong with their shitty shows and blame it on the audience.


So I'm not at all surprised if they automatically assumed a "measly youtuber shows" couldn't make it if their "top tier" shows couldn't.


I hope they're seething 😈
Thank you! I hope it's gonna be fun! 
Drawing Markiplier 
I tried my best, but it didn't really turn out right. Faces are always iffy with me and if anyone has any advice on how to do faces better please help
Hello! Thanks for posting. This is a reminder about the rules. Make sure the post is appropriate and not to delegate or go against Reddit policy or r/Markiplier Rules. If this does break rules, please report it immediately. Posts that encourage raids on other subs or platforms is a bannable offense.

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/Markiplier) if you have any questions or concerns.*
Really nice. Honestly the thing that would help this out is to just make his face a little bit thinner. His head is big, just not THAT big.
"Hello everybody this is Sketch-plier, and today we'll be playing Five sketchy nights at Freddy's"
Looked good in the second picture but almost lost it at the third. 😂

You did great though. I’m sure there can be easier ways to draw faces, I struggle with that too.
I love it but all I can think is 🗿 but it's drawn really well keep up the good work
"They just can't get my nose right!"
Your problem is that you drew a forward-face on a sideways Markiplier 😅
This is something out of a nightmare...

Show it to a game developer so they can make a horror game for Mark to react to.
🗿
I’ve heard that with realism, drawing the face first (or at least the guidelines) and building around that can help :] My art style is very cartoony so I haven’t tried this myself, but I hope that helps!
Great work dude, your technique is excellent, looks like you may just be struggling a bit with perspective and proportion. It's hard to get right when you first start off, something that really helped me improve with that was marking a little grid across the reference and the space on your pic. It means you can focus on technique without constantly overanalysing what exactly you're doing
*sniffles*
Artkiplier
"collect my pages"
**Throwing flashbang**
I think your picture is almost perfect, tiny bit of constructive criticism. I think you started to go a bit wide on the mouth and chin, also I’m drunk so please ignore this next part of the comment

My thought was:  Morkiplier
Mom pick me up im scared
He has such a big nose...
Whats this from?
you should do the face larger, he has a very large head
'That Fucking Picture' 2.0

/s

Anyways not bad 👍
 MY WORD THR NOSE IS WAAAAAYYYY 
TOO BIG.
Reminds me of Jorji from Papers Please except incredibly handsome

… just like Jorji.
Oh god Mork is taking over! Where’s Mark when you need him!?
Damn you really have him that Moai 🗿nose loool , nice drawing btw *
"Oh, it's adorable!"

"Oh, it's traumatized..."
I struggle with the faces alot too honestly. Your details look pretty good but the scaling is definitely off in a lot of spots. A method I like to help with that, is to just get a few points of reference you know are true. I usually do this by, using my phone, turning the brightness up and placing dots around, at the peak of the nose, 2 points for the eyes bottom and top of the lips, etc. hope this helps!
It's pretty cool
Oof. But you have great potential, keep it up, find the right tecniques, and most importantly, don't be too hard on yourself. Failure leads to success, I believe in you.
You made his nose massive on purpose
Nose is definitely accurate considering how many times be broke it😂
Id recommend getting a second copy of the reference and applying a grid over top. That can really help with getting the scale right [here's an example](https://images.app.goo.gl/U7HhpSqmX6fjos4z8)
Wide Mark, the counterpart of [Long Mark](https://www.reddit.com/r/Markiplier/comments/17xvhmb/i_found_the_original_artist_of_long_markiplier/#lightbox)
The face feels off compared to the rest, but it's still very good for everything (It feels like another artstyle for the face to be more precise).
In the reference, he’s facing a little more away than in the drawing and that’s what’s making his face look a little too wide. His jaw kind of gets lost in the shadows/stubble of that pic so it’s hard to see but you have the position pretty correct. His ear could be a little bigger and a touch lower too. We tend to focus on facial features more when looking at a person and that can lead to drawing those features larger than how they actually are proportionally. Doing a light rough outline of his facial features first and comparing that to the reference before detailing will help you with the proportions. This is very good already and you’ll only get better from here the more you draw!
You have a potential style to your art, but you'll have to put a little effort in first
Well, as someone that can only draw stick men, definitely better than anything I could have done
wow
Oh no lol good job tho this is planet of the apes Mark
It looks like you slid the texture of his head to the right, but the geometry is perfect. 

If you can draw faces a bit more perspectively accurate, this would be a 10/10.

The rest of him is beautiful
It's ok in way that if Mark sees this he will be and appreciate it.
We know him that he has a motivating personality(in some way).
Also in my opinion it's great could use a bit improving on shadowing the face, but that's a small matter really. It great and it's fine.
I think the one thing to help this drawing is the background. In the picture its clear where the light is coming from because it reflects in both Markiplier and the background. It also helps to outline where the face has shadows on it to make it easier to shade the drawing. Also for future reference keeping the values in check would be a good practice.
Try structuring the face before you draw. And don't leave it for "last"
Keep it up :)
That looking good and keep doing what you’re doing have fun
It’s a master peice
The eyes are a bit too dark but overall good job 🥹👏🏻
Bro said 👁️👃👁️
"i tried my best"

  
MOTHERFUCKA YOU KILLED IT!!!

This look awesome!!!
what helped me with faces was drawing some portraits focusing on just those, starting from them middle (usually the nose) so i dont have to worry about the features being too big ad i can arrange the outline to be proportionate. getting used to those made it simpler to incorporate faces in other contexts too! very cute drawing btw <3
All I can say is that you made his face too big. The nose is also too low which then makes the mouth lower and the chin smaller. A good guide is that the eyebrows typically line up with the top of the ear and the bottom of the nose lines up with the bottom of the ear. Give or take some discrepancies. I typically draw the ears after drawing the face to make everything look aligned.

If you don’t use guidelines I recommend trying them out to get a better idea of where the face goes.
okay so for faces, what i usually do is draw two guidelines first, one down the center of the face in the direction it’s pointing (which would be a little further to the side) and then one horizontal line at the ears to mark generally where the eyes should go. then you can draw two little hatch lines between the eye line and the bottom of the chin based on where the nose and mouth are. this helps you get the face relatively proportional

then for face details, i recommend starting with lightly sketched simple shapes to make sure it looks like the person before you add more details and shading

(note: i am not a realism artist, but i AM an artist and i have had to try drawing realism for art school) 

most importantly, practice makes you better. do various facial studies of different people and thatll help you understand the way faces are proportioned and what makes people's faces different :)
You're right, you're bad at drawing faces. He looks like Mr. Potato
Making the jaw more angular might help also! Really not bad tho!!!
Biggest advice im going to give you is use guidelines. I find them time consuming and annoying and used to hate using them myself, and found them stupid. But they are going to be your BIGGEST lifesaver when measuring where bits of the face go. 

For smoother blending, use tissues and go easy with it. It will help it look very soft and smooth, then you can add hatching/crosshatching lines overtop for texture or deeper shadows.

I dont want this to come off as negative criticism, because that is not what this is. This is an amazing piece, and i have always had to figure these tips out for myself. I hope you try these out (doesnt even have to be on another piece, it can be on a ‘practice piece’, like drawing a circle and shading or another object) and hope they work out for u 👍
You did great. That nose tho is like the size of a pear 🍐 he can smell the entirety of LA with that schnozz 😂😊
3/4 profile are so difficult to get down but DAYUMMMMM the shading on those clothes is phenomenal!!!!!
You broke his nose, again…
A living legend..Him and Jack..
My brother draws and I know he struggles with faces for a while. He started to actually use the line method of splitting the face up into sections and it helped him a ton. After that he just kept doing faces. Eventually he got to a point where most of his faces look really good, but it's still a challenge. I recommend to start putting a lot more time into practicing them. Instead of drawing random things or the rest of the body, focus purely on faces for a while. You'll get better.
His mouth and nose are way too big and too low. His ear is too small and too high. :)
Better than the original 🙏🏻
Needs more neck
Does that hairstyle have a name?
Should check out the Loomis method for drawing head and faces at random angles, determine where each part of the face is in your ref pic and recreate w the same angles ( very simplified and quick explanation but there’s lots of info on yt)
It was so good. And then the face happened 😭
The shading is really nice! Mapping out his features with guide lines is always helpful. When I’m doing portraits I always try to practice the orientation of the face first
Some blunt pointers cause I don’t have time to go into detail: nose too big. face facing forward too much, in the ref he’s more side facing than 3/4 view. chin too boxy. eyes should not be a black void?? inner eye corner on right side should line up with the left one.
if you want to improve on the fa e i would suggest getting the facial proportions in first. for example, the ear is kinda small and a little high up in your drawing. In real life the ear usually goes from the tip of the nose to somewhere around the eyebrows. look where the ear goes for mark, make it a bit longer in your drawing amd then adjust the rest of the face accordingly.
there are a lot of those proportions in the face. Like the corners of the mouth usually go in between the middle of the eye balls, the nose is as wode as the inbetween of the eyes, the eyes are in the middle of the head (not face) etc.
Those are things that help me with faces so much and when you wanna dras someone in particular (someone recognizable) those proportions are what make them recognizable (apart feom other stuff like hair, style, etc.)
Mark fichnozz
Id say that you did a fine job. But I have to say, He looks like He was stung by a bee. Good job tho, love It ❤️.
Perfect.
Markiplier be like:🗿
Done him dirt XD
the picture  looks like jin sakai
That's actually the closest representation of Markipliers face, I've ever seen. Step it up lixian
I am not an artist but that 2nd picture was looking pretty good. Also that picture of Mark looks so comfy.
It was good until the face
Was gonna ask why did you draw he's eyes black, but then I looked back at the reference 😭🙏
Why is market pliers head so big
You got his head size, but his face is too big and wide. What I think happened is you got tunnel visioned on his face and didn’t realize you were drawing it too big
hello every cave person my name is oogabooga and today we're playing five nights at mammoths
I know this has already been pointed out but the face is a little weird, but you did a really good job on the body
Mark EDWARD fischbach
This is why you always start with the head before the rest
Make his mouth smaller, his chin longer, and the nose needs to be a bit smaller. 
I hope he sees it. You worked hard on it, I can tell.
That’s a nose Lixian would be proud of.
Cavemanplier
It was good until the second picture
Lmao. He looks Luke a fat kid waiting for birthday cake.
His nose looks like🗿
THIS IS REALLY GOOD!! The only thing I could recommend is lightly lining out where the facial features are so you can use the photo to determine the size and position better but is still really good!! 10/10!
Yo you did him dirty
I see that now. Thank you for pointing it out 😁
I think I fixed it, so thank you
Squidward
That's pretty good 😂
I debated just stopping after getting the clothes and hair down cause I knew this was going to happen 😭 

But I think i fixed it a little bit , I just don't know if I can post it without making another post. It's definitely a skill I need to work on though
Trust me, it's definitely not my worst realistic one. I have a terrifying Harry Styles one that I really need to redo..
Thank you. I will try that with my next piece. I always start with the outlines of the picture, but somehow always end with the face and it all gets botched
I can't do slightly turned or turned people so I've been trying to do more of them to get better. How would you mark them ?
I know 🥲
One of the Saint Jude streams iirc! I don’t remember which one, but I’ll have a look and link it here if I do find it
It was a gtlive thing where the chat effects ultimate custom night for st jude
I'm not sure what the photo is from, I just found it a good photo and wanted to draw it
And the eyes are way too dark in the whites.
Of course, gotta give them both
Thank you!
Faces are always hard for me so I try to do them as much as possible but I think this is another one that I need to redo later on
Thank you
I did add it and I've posted it
Thank you so much
Thank you 😊
I did try to fix it. I've posted it too
Fr
I'll try to use them more but it's just a struggle to comprehend where the lines are
Harsh, but accurate 😂
I will definitely take this advice. Hopefully I can figure out how to use guidelines first though
Yes, he wanted to be able to smell a bakery from his home
I know! I debated just stopping after everything and just leave him blank faced 😂
He tried to run away. That's just what happens 🤷‍♀️
I actually drew Jack after this and he turned out way better due to the advice I was given below. I just don't know where to show it
How would I go about splitting it up? Cause I've only done the splitting a few times and it usually works in the beginning with the eyes, but then the mouth and nose ruin it.
Ah, thank you 😊
😬 I don't think so..
I really think he needs less face like everyone else is saying 😭
Not sure
I will check it out, thank you
I know 😭 I should've just stopped but I wanted to test my luck 😔
How do you do that? I might try it next time, so if you don't mind elaborating
Yeah I see it. I've redone it and it's titled "Drawing Markiplier pt2 😮‍💨"
You can look at the second try if you want. It might be a little better
That's why I chose it. I did redo Mark in another post along with Jacksepticeye
I know 🥲
😂
It just happened that way. Could also be how I took the photo
🤣🤣🤣
Thank you. I should have stopped there
I did, but it was only the outline and I didn't fill it in till everything else was done 🥲
😂
I'm aware 😞
Yes I'll definitely do that next time. I already tried to redo his face in another post but I don't think it helped much so I'm just leaving it for now and might redraw him again in the future
I know 🥲
Besides the face being a little iffy, it looks absolutely amazing
Not gonna lie it looks good just say it is "big brain time"
No problem.
At least it’s not as bad as that “why the long face?” drawing.
I would usually a 3x3 cm grid over my paper, and one that is about the same ratio on the reference. Really helps you to build up an idea of how faces look at certain angles, and eventually you won't even need to use one!
I tried to fix it , but I don't know how to show it without making a new post. I kept trying to make it better but I think it was just getting worse the more I did it 😅
I understand but if you keep doing it you’ll understand it more. There’s also some artists on YouTube who have good guideline tutorials like Marc Brunet.
Now that'd be great 🤤
That's great.Jack is one of my favorites.
Idk, I don't draw. I would Google it and see the best places for everything. I looked up a few things and it all seems to be unanimous about where to put the nose and ears, etc.
Look it’s good but the face needs work. You made the nose too big, you didn’t make the mouth round aka it didn’t curve the way it need too, same with the eyes.
Well humans have a natural line of symmetry down the centre of their face, so you can start with that! After that, the eyes go in the middle of the head, from the top of the head, NOT the hairline. Then from the eye line, the bottom of the nose is halfway down from there to the chin. The bottom of the bottom lip is then 2/3 down from the nose line. And there you go! Standard proportion lines. Some other things to note is the inner corners of the eyes line up with the edge of your nostrils, the space between your eyes is about the width of one eye, and your eyes line up around your eyes-eyebrows
Second try?
No no you just gotta work on it some more, faces are difficult
Thank you. I'll try this when I can 😁
Thank you, I'll look at them
Same. I watched him and Mark a lot during COVID and with my cousin. Unfortunately I missed out on the unus annus though

 It's in another post of mine called "Drawing Markiplier pt2 😮‍💨" if you want to see it
Okay I'll try
Yeah I've tried to fix it and I've posted it again on pt2 but I think I just need to try doing faces first
Thank you! I'll try this next time
Yeah. I redid his face a little bit, but I'm not sure if it actually helped 🥲
They are. And redoing it I don't think really helped
Good luck! No gatekeeping here lol
It doesn't need to be redone tho
I know you'll get it eventually 😁
It kinda did. I just need to work on drawing noses more
Today, I cleared my raptors.
As I, a Lee sin with flash, 2 smites and r up, returned from base, I noticed that the enemy mid laner with a 1000 gold shutdown was 1hp greeding for a plate, my 300 stack Draven was shoved in and the enemy bot laners were severely overextended, and the enemy jungler was on vision, 1hp taking dragon, leaving me more than enough time to go for the steal. So I cleared my raptors, enjoying every last auto attack. I left the camp satisfied, but realized I had left one small raptor and spent 20 seconds of tempo walking back from my blue side to go grab it. Then, my entire team started pinging me, as my mid died, and the enemy jungler secured dragon and dived bot. I continued my full clear after muting my team and saying “gg, 3 losing lanes, ff15, useless pigs”. Little do they know, I cleared my raptors. I was extremely sexually gratified in doing so and will be clearing my raptors again shortly.
Easy Guide to Climb Rank!

Early Game : Full clear camps 

Mid Game : Full clear camps

Late Game : Full clear camps

Enemy team grouping for obj : Full clear camps

Enemy team hitting our nexus : Full clear camps

Back in post game lobby : Full clear camps
Hahahah i love these post. First on toplane, then supps now jg. Gotta see it now in adc pls
goat
I know you trolling but truth is clearing works. 


If my team is losing, my only shot of carrying is getting levels. 


If my team is winning, I will have strength to help end.  


There's a reason every decent jungle guide emphasize clearing over ganking in the current meta. 
Wait until he learns how fast Shyvana clears raptors…
You post like a Seraphine Main
Don't know why, but I read the title as, today I clear my diapers.
Aribo's lost son
Lol diana 3 hit passive says what raptors.
r/copypasta
The early death timers nerf can't come soon enough
the funny part about this sub is that i had to actually think about if this is satire or not
My only question is why are you my jungler in every game? How do you know when I’m queuing up?
Would you like another full clear with that full clear sir? 🥂
Morgana has the fastest raptor clear rate btw besides maybe mordekaiser
When I’m not in my room I perma full clear in wild rift
Sinerias approved
So what ur trying to say is blue red golems gank top?
I full clear camps at work too
Full clear will be daily
one small correction :

Back in post game lobby : Full report team
"today I didn't miss any cannon. i had to die to draven 5 times but it was worth it. i will do it again."


-zeri
So there I was, playing Kai'sa (my favorite champ, no she's not OP). Riot gave me jg who was perma ganking me (finally I didn't get the boosted jg), and the enemy sup was an idiot so I got fed (finally I didn't get the boosted sup). Furthermore our mid roamed bot a lot (finally I didn't get the boosted mid), so getting drakes shouldn't be a problem. However a minion wave arrived as mid, jg, and sup went to drake, so I decided to take it, and enemy jg was able to steal it. Now I don't usually ping people's summoners when they make a mistake, but I had to ping our jg's smite (apparently our jg is boosted).

Anyway mid game rolls around and I'm fed from 12 ganks (0 objectives though, boosted jg can't understand I need to farm and not help with drakes). I start walking mid, but our mid doesn't rotate (boosted animal) so I have to farm my jgs camps (only 40 cs 12 min. in, boosted animal don't know how to farm) before walking towards top (he's boosted if he doesn't immediately TP bot). He dies on my way there (weird how our top only has 1 tower), but surely I can just kill the Jax. I miss my W (unlucky I guess), and E towards Jax getting real close to him. He starts spinning his lantern, stuns me (Riot why is my range this low?), I ult away, but his Q+W combo kills me. I look at the score board and apparently our top has died to him and enemy jg a lot (boosted animal top player) and pings my support being alive (boosted animal, defending bot alone).

GG Riot, another game lost because I have animals on my team.
Wait where's the support one? I want to see.
wait what's the toplane one?
It started here 


https://www.reddit.com/r/Jungle_Mains/comments/1emomqa/bro_predicted_the_future/?utm_source=share&utm_medium=mweb3x&utm_name=mweb3xcss&utm_term=1&utm_content=share_button
Funnily enough, the Top Bit was made here first. 

Someone said, that jungle mains may be the most active role sub, to which a user responded: "I mean, what do you expect to see in the top main sub? Today I pushed a wave?"

We've come full circle
you also have to deal with shitty team mental, sometimes gank is worthwhile but yeah full clear is usually better even tho it's boring af (looking at you shyvana)
Yeah, I don’t really play junglers like Elise/nidalee who are forced to gank early. I like Evelyn, Ekko and karthus.
If your team is losing your only shot isn't getting levels , you could gank when appropriate lol. With your logic every hand is just coin flip
Very slow imo (i dont use W because I dont like to be on fire)
“Today I stayed in the sidelane to get farm safely while my team wasted time getting objectives and towers. Don’t they know I’m the win condition? I’m so fed, I’ve only missed 2/7 minions in the sidelane alone freezing since the end of laning phase. When it’s 30 minutes and time for the game winning fight I’m sure to carry. If my teammates can actually peel me.”
🚨NEW ORDERS FROM BOSS MAN 🚨 
From me...doesn't hurt to try to get it up there more than that! But we have a minimum goal now! 
Hello! Thanks for posting. This is a reminder about the rules. Make sure the post is appropriate and not to delegate or go against Reddit policy or r/Markiplier Rules. If this does break rules, please report it immediately. Posts that encourage raids on other subs or platforms is a bannable offense.

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/Markiplier) if you have any questions or concerns.*
I'll try to watch it on the weekend then, maybe that will help 

Sorry Mark, as I'm sure you've heard by now, babies are hard work and a lot of time.
I’m tired boss
If it's not top ten without brigading, is it really a top ten?
Imma give it a watch for the first time today
Gonna continue to have it play all grainy through a VPN until we get a UK release, then I'll enjoy it in full quality in the knowledge we won and Mark will be able to use his new powers to carry out his next plans!
When you say new orders from Boss man sounds very cultish
Is it still not available in Canada?
how do i convince people to watch eos

  
apparently a lot of my friends are scared of anything horror-ish
SIR YES SIR🫡🫡 honestly i think it’s just a fun silly time proving the corps wrong, i live for the chaos. We can cause a little chaos >:)
I still can't watch it in the uk.
Im sad I missed the stream. I was having a horror movie marathon with my friends
...you guys should learn that analytics can filter rewatchs on the same accounts.If they want to have the true numbers, they can ignore these inflated numbers.

Helping others find the show is enough.
#CHAOS
I know he really wants his movie to come out but it's really pathetic watching him get taken advantage of this hard.
I’m not watching it again, it’s mediocre.
I feel like this, again, belongs in the TEOS sub and not here.
I watched it all today. Amazing.
sounds unrealistic to me I'm not gonna lie
Oh no, here we go again
After the stream he said we should all just go watch it  to start the plan but I’m surprised to see that it hasn’t been brought back to the top 10, how long does it take for that thing to update??
I figured I would watch an episode a day to keep consistent reasons to watch it and it takes longer. And you can restart it. It’s 6 days.
Im out of town this weekend 😭😭
I fell asleep while Watching his live stream🥲
UNITE FOR MARK, FIGHT FOR MARK, RAISE HIS THRONE TO BEAT THE SHIT OUT OF JUDGE JUDY!!!
I just finished it! It’s so good, I’m impressed and so proud of him 

Please give it a watch when you have a chance ♥️
I wish I could help but I’m from Canada. And no I don’t have a VPN. 😭
Where is it at right now
It does! A single bang on the drum from each person is still a lot of noise 🔥
Make the babies watch edge of sleep too, I heard it’s a great bedtime story, it’s in the name!
Babies make mark uncomfortable. For a fun example see the video of Mark meeting Matthias’s baby some years ago.
Mark said to take today off!
When everything else is against us, yes.
Brigading doesn't matter. The numbers just mean advertising dollars for Amazon and other companies, that's what they care about. If there's a view on the show, it means that somebody saw an ad, which is all that they care about. If anything, brigading is good for the corporate side of things because it brings those advertising dollars in en masse.
Wait until you see k-pop
I keep saying this and getting downvoted into oblivion for it 🤣
Amazon doesn’t care so long as number go up. Someone else pointed this out, but really there is no way Judge Judy didn’t stay in the top 10 without folks doing rewatches.
It is a cult :)
It's called trying to be funny. Maybe I failed but I thought it was funny.
Amazon said "frick you" to international viewers (It's Amazon's decision)
It’s not really horror, I just finished it. It’s more of a mystery and semi-thriller
Call it a thriller instead?
I’m struggling with this as well. I didn’t think it was that scary but apparently I’m desensitized or something? Lol 😂
How much of it did you watch? The plot, acting, cinematography, and finale were very well done; Mark’s acting was a little awkward at times but otherwise, I just finished it and it was great!
As Mark has made TEOS posts here as recently as last week, I would disagree.
I found my answer, it takes 12 hrs supposedly
Lmaoooooo
Mark is so kind
Erm.. I didn't realise there was a conspiracy afoot.
It also earns the content creator (person/production company) that published through Prime Video Direct revenue. Last I heard it was 1 cent/hour viewed but could be less/more now.
People are weird man
[removed]
It is, dob't worry ;)
No it's not lmao, international distribution licensing is expensive af and EOS production company obviously didn't want to shell out the big dollarinos for that


I love when confidently clueless idiots downvote facts
yeah i'm trying to tell them this
I watched all of it, but that’s all I have in me.
Didn’t the mods here literally make a separate sub for it though?
Less conspiracy, more an uphill climb. Amazon somewhat understandably doesn’t wanna shell out for an international release for a less than two hour long one season series by a famous Youtuber.
Not really a conspiracy, just that they refused to advertise it, still arnt doing much, and are holding another show hostage with it
It's well known the movie industry HATES youtubers
Amazon hates YouTubers
Kinda weird getting down voted for this. Super weird..
I keep coming back to this post and seeing all the down votes. Makes me laugh every time. People are crazy 🤣🤣🤣
That seems insanely low. At that rate, billions of views would be needed to earn anything back. I really hope that's not true.. Even with find on Spotify, you 36 times that per listen. Still way too low, but still better.
"Your submission has been removed because it does not contain English. By speaking in other languages, this makes it harder for our team to effectively moderate. Please remake your post/comment using English only."

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/Markiplier) if you have any questions or concerns.*
"It was shopped around to every streamer, every publisher, every distributor in every format you can imagine and it was shot down every single time. Not despite me. BECAUSE of me. Prime has a self-publishing platform, that’s the only reason it exists right now. *Even international is locked behind golden gates.* This IS the Hail Mary. A bet it all on Mark play." (Comment from Mark, [link](https://www.reddit.com/r/Markiplier/comments/1gbm73t/comment/ltpbp4q/))
US distribution licensing is also expensive. Not sure what your point is. At this point lets not even release tv shows at all, its gonna be much cheaper that way
Just tell them it’s not really horror, just has some random scary-ish shots that are more mysterious than scary
I mean, that’s the best you can do 🤷🏼‍♀️

Since I liked it I’m going to rewatch it with my bf but I think replaying it over and over again is kinda weird. I mean, I get that they’re just trying to help him get more opportunities but I think the show speaks for itself and I’m excited for Iron Lung, which should also give him more credit
I believe that is specifically for text posts discussing the show it's self. So like "guys what did you think of [insert show moment]" type posts I think.
There’s lots of certs that have to be passed in order to do that and the way they distributed it it is up to the production companies to provide that (metadata, captions, audio dubbing AND burnt in subtitles for JP, tax forms) 

And from what I understand Prime Video Direct only allows distribution in certain countries.
More like the entire entertainment industry, no platform gave this show a chance. It's only on Amazon cause EoS paid for it to be there
Now that makes sense.
Yes it definitely is especially since they’re not posting it anywhere else like a lot of indie creators are able to do since Amazon seemed to have worked out some agreement about streaming Iron Lung after it’s in theaters or whatever they’ve offered. 

It really sucks. 

“Hell House LLC” was a movie created by a small team who also used PVD to distribute on Prime but they were able to get it distributed to like 5 different platforms including YouTube. It allowed them to get a small chunk of revenue and gain a following to produce like 3 more movies. Although I think that films budget is way lower than TEoS budget.
[removed]
I stand corrected. I have become the confidently clueless idiot. Turntables...
Yeah paying for one country vs paying for a bunch of countries think real hard why that might be magnitudes more expensive and you might just be able to get it
And still isn't Amazon's decisions that's my point but nice attempt at moving the goalpost
That makes sense then. I thought it was more to get people to stop posting so much TEOS stuff. My bad then. ^^
To me, this is about hating capitalism, loving what Mark has made (alongside EVERY SINGLE PERSON who put any kind of creative or constructive work into TEOS, despite knowing that they wouldn't be taken seriously, and it would be an extreme uphill battle)... and showing the cynics/naysayers what for. The people always have to show up for each other.
"Your submission has been removed because it does not contain English. By speaking in other languages, this makes it harder for our team to effectively moderate. Please remake your post/comment using English only."

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/Markiplier) if you have any questions or concerns.*
You're not wrong. All they literally have to do is pay the international fee (which is pretty expensive tbf) and it'll be licensed to the international markets through Amazon's program for self published content. Amazon works on a pay-to-play basis with self published content. 

So it being locked behind the "golden gates" just means it's locked behind a paywall that the production company/distributor/etc was too cheap to pay.
I did it. First time in 10 years
I never pushed past gold so it might have been possible earlier. But i finally did it in the season, where everyone says jungle is useless. Lol. I was always thankful for jungle nerfs, so people who play the role because they think it’s op stop playing it.
Bro I feel u so hard. I have been playing this game for the past 10 years, im 30 atm. And I only peak platine last season and Emerald this one. Gg keep grinding I will be master before my 40’s I can promess that
Right in Riot's trap...
Whos gonna tell him
Gratz you climbed to gold this season as well!
Great work on gold 3!

https://www.reddit.com/r/leagueoflegends/comments/15ka6xh/heres_a_table_showing_the_change_in_rank_between/?utm_source=share&utm_medium=ios_app&utm_name=iossmf
Congrats!, the ppl who says "it's emerald bla bla al" u know.. fat bois with the ass stick in th chair, don't listen to them.
I can't believe people get clowned and downvoted for pointing it out. You're in the exact same rank as last seasons though, old plat is new emerald so you've literally just reached the same point you never pushed past.
Good job! Only took Riot to move the ladder down four ranks for you to reach Plat!
Gratz on Gold IV
still gold brother
at what cost?

(congrats though)
Someday I hope to celebrate this milestone too, and hopefully with far fewer haters, but also this is Reddit, so. 🤷‍♀️

My big milestone today was I got an A in Master Yi twice! Which led me to thinking “I’m getting a good grade in jungle, something that is both normal to want and possible to achieve! 😜” maybe by the weekend I’ll be level 31 finally 😅
let bro be happy in peace 😄
gold players last season and plat players this season DO NOT have the same amount of braincells, i can promise you that, no matter if they're playing normals or ranked.
people at this rank have so much ego they start trolling if they die 5 times in lane
nice
The hard part is now climbing past Platinum, it only gets worse from here.
You can definetly go up to Diamond. People in Plat - Low Master are just either monkeys or retired pro players. 

Don't be the monkey. Climb.
Congratulations !
I think the correctly way to be looking at is like so is this:

~~Iron is below Bronze~~

~~Bronze is below Silver~~

~~Silver is below Gold~~

~~Gold is below Platinum~~

~~Platinum is below Emerald~~

~~Emerald is below Diamond~~

We all suck.
Big congrats I Climbed from iron to plat in 2 months (I was also stuck in gold prior too I played till season 7 quit and came back in october) ppl downplaying plat can F off lol. I still climbed a lot of tiers regardless of what was there before and imho all the Elos do in fact feel different
660 likes 300 comments
Congrats !
imagine being called a hater for telling him this is just a riot trap, youre still the exact same skill level as last season (mid gold)
Congrats on gold 3!
good job friend im proud of you
congrats mate every millestones is a win! keep on the grind
Satisfaction.
Welcome to gold!!!
I don't even play Jungle, Reddit drops me here to congrats the hardest worker of league!
Your place on the ladder is what determines your skill and rank.

Current plat is the same as old gold due to emerald addition.

So you just hit the same rank.
HHAHAHAHH
Plat as of now is Gold from every prior season. They added a new rank called emerald which is what Gold 1 - Plat 1 was.
Keep in mind this is really the equivalent to gold 4 before split 2. Its much easier to reach plat
If this guy got to plat in 10 years how the fuck am I going to get out of silver within one year
But you still can't figure out how screenshots work.  Lmao.
Good job! Not to offend or be an asshole, but Platinum this season is almost equivalent to Gold in the previous seasons in terms of skill.
Welcome to gold just wait until you hit the next rank my god have mercy on your soul
[removed]
.. the next stupid post. This season your plat4 means u are gold4
I think it's pretty shitty for this comment section to devalue this. 


As someone who also just hit plat for the first time after 1 season and 1 split, congrats man! I also just had the goal of gold knowing inflation was a thing but never thought I'd hit plat with a 57% wr!

Ive visibility and statistically improved and without those improvements I wouldn't have hit plat. So fuck all these people discounting it. It's an achievement so congratulations!
I mean... I really want to say congratulations. People improving is great for the game. But this is gold 4 atp. 

But if you actually feel like you improved then that's still a win.
I gotta ask how tf ppl truly climb. 

Obviously you're a much better player than I am, but if I win 3x games in a row, and get ~54 LP, then lose one game for -37 I've ended up hardstuck for having a shit team. The games I won I was dominant in, kda of 5-8, games I lost I was still positive KDA, high KP, and still over my tier's cs rate. 

My games are just remake after remake, and ppl trolling as teemo cause a team mate banned hwei, or wouldn't let them have the lane role they wanted.

System is so awful to be a player in. I know people say 'you're where you're meant to be' but if you win 3-4x as much as you lose, where you were getting mobalytics MVPs it's incredibly demoralising.
ggwp
Congrats !

Good job !
Well done! Do you have a plan to fight the goblin that spawns under your bed when you hit plat?
Bro i can't stay chill seing the amount of sad 10 years old nerd, being offended because someone is happy... To all of you tbh youre mom should have take pills.
Don‘t listen to those jealous silver/gold players blabbering about rank inflation congratz man!!!
Platinum is platinum, ignore the haters. Grats :>
Grats on reaching gold
Ur still a 10yr gold and will always be. You just have a green gold border now reject after adding emerald and taking away series
from pisslow to pisslow
I hate to be that guy, but plat is the new gold. There is a new tier called Emerald.
Idk why people make the assumption plat is gold and what not, it doesn’t hit the lower ranks, just adds a broader spectrum from plat up.
thats kinda sad bro after 10 years of playing this garbo game u only managed to hit plat?😭🙏 im 3 weeks in and im gold 2
This explains many questions i had. Time to uninstall game and do something else.
holy shit you're bad, it took you 10 years
Litteraly i can push to emerald with you if you want xd
Jungle weak XD
lol same I love how all the previously gold players can now make it to plat thanks to emerald
Hat's off to you!  I've played for 14 years and never managed to quite touch silver, much less gold/plat.  Congrats on your hard work paying off!
Congrats. So… what’s the trick?
The more you grow, the harder it gets! But remember my friend, isn't the purpose of the tree to grow and destroy it's seed? Now it's your time to become bigger and stronger. Go for it.
Meh
I’m plat 4 but my MMR is emerald 4 so am I plat from previous season?
Hey!! I did it too my friend. Come give me five 🖐️
Very nice man. What you play?
Proud of u king.

Now go get a platinum salary
Oh no. You should have stayed in gold. Only over inflated egos over here in this rank.
Tbh I am of the opinion that Jungle is the easiest role to have an impact on.
In a large majority of Jg matchups the 1v1 matchup can be mitigated by good pathing & jg tracking.
A good Jg will watch wave states while clearing camps instead of staring at Jg camps & be able to change clear path around teammates without need for communication. (Which most will not do till maybe even Diamond)

Dekar and a few other smaller streamers are actually under the belief that Jg is the easiest role to rank up on for these reasons.
One of their reasonings for this is how Pro laners can swap to Jg with great success (Ambition, Hai, Bwipo to name a few), but it doesn’t go the other way around.
So I would honestly say more junglers are actually just worse fundamentally at the game, compared to their laner counterparts at any given rank, due to the role not requiring you to learn as many of the small details of the game.

But as your your rank, whatever makes you happy my dude 🫡
I have a friend who has played League longer than me who hasn’t peaked past Bronze 2, and still regularly gets put back in Iron (even after the rank change).
I will tell you what anyone won't but grow up already.
Plat this season is the same as gold last season.
Can’t wait to hit plat
Sorry to burst your bubble but ... Plat4 is unironically the old gold. New ranks shifted the ranks around.
Wow incresible u made it do gold 4 congrats
Thanks! Go dew it!!
Emerald and plat last season are the same thing, just as gold is plat this season
Promess frites
Ikr 😂, probably not what they intended but a side effect they’re sneakily fine with 🤷‍♂️
If you read anything, then you might realise a lot of people did already. But honestly, I don’t care about that. My goal for this season was to get plat. And I got plat. Something I never tried to do, because I usually only wanted the free skin.
We did sir, a bunch of copers are trying to hide the evidence, they call us "haters", sir.
You are mean... correct but mean... haha
You are mean, but also right
Please upvote higher because OP is really blind about it despite all the comments and seem to struggle understanding the concept of percentile
It sadly is just true tho but if it makes him happy
Thank you my brother!!
Doesn't matter if they are fat, they are right and argument is valid.  
Plat now is old gold and hitting plat now gives you false sense of progress.
Gold 4-1 is now gold 1 to plat 1, its tje same players, i would say in emerald 4 there are a lot of gold players as well.
It's actually gold, it just goes to show how unironically bad this sub is lmao
ignore the objectively correct take? lol ok
A happy fairy tale is always more attractive than the harsh reality. That's your reason pretty much.

And they don't want to hurt their egos. All those people that downvote the ones that speak facts are pretty much silvers golds and plats. They got inflated and now when someone says that they are the same rank, it hurts their ego. So they deny that current plat is old gold etc despite literally even math proving it and even Riot saying it.
I heavily disagree, I have friends hardstuck in plat when same as last year
Post the OP.GG mr masters player, or stop trying to shit on some random redditor.
u must be fun at parties!
But he finally hit plat lol. You ever wonder how half your games are filled with shitters? Read this sub and see all the people jerking people off for reaching the same ranked percentile they’ve reached for 10 years. Makes sense now, right?
Come on, it's definitely higher than that. Like Gold II to I easy
A lot of possible baldurs gate 3 playtime :(
Some sanity…
And Lots of energy drinks
The weird thing is, emerald is 100% doable for me too, something just clicked and I won so many games in a row. You might also notice that one day, and then you can go on the biggest climb.
My teammates who inted the most are always exclusively plat..
Plat and emerald is fine, diamond is a shitshow and master too. People think they are Faker in those elos. It’s cringe as hell
I definetly noticed something different this year with me being able to deal with feeders, or steong enemies. Whether it was me carrying myself or allow a teammate to carry with me staying relevant when behind, it definetly was different.
Not sure about dia, but emerald seems possible.
Thank you man, appreciate it
Nice! Thats a huge climb, well done
Haha good one😂
Same, i basically only play varus (i think his lore is cool, and he is very versatile with builds, probably the most interesting adc while not requiring a masters degree to play), but since i view other league content this gets pushed in my algorithm.
Simply play, don’t stop playing, but dont spamm rankeds. I usually play a best of  5 games of the day. 
And once again, this is the first year I actively tried reaching plat. Play and enjoy playing, the climb comes by itself
Maybe next year Riot will drop the ladder a bit more!
Lmao in my opinion he knows how to screen but only use reddit on phone like me so he took a picture with the phone for sharing it easier
I strongly disagree, in my 5 years of playing silv-diamond games, there was only one difference between gold and plat this whole time and that is mikro plays, plat players alweys were self centred idiots with no recollection of makro, idk why ppl think it did changed by adding emerald

Only thing emerald did was to lower diamond and plat players, % of players in gold and lower didn't move at all
Yeah I think so, but some people I know still can’t get past gold, also the player numbers still say the majority of players is gold or lower. 

It was definetly a bit easier tho, but I also changed a lot about myself this season
Everyone knows this. There’s always one person commenting this on similar posts. Just congratulate the guy and move on.
Last year plat is around em 4 low em 3
Yeah, we both know, thats what matters, Idk what I expected sharing this on reddit
100%, my stats improved, and I felt I could constantly do something no matter how much teammates fed, or if I fell behind and allowing others to carry me
I thought it should be something like gold II
Keep playing. Eventually your MMR will even out. Stop looking at LP gains, its just a fantasy number anyways. Focus on your own games and your own mistakes. Everyone knows how frustrating it is when you lose because of teammates but it doesnt help you at all. 

I am happy when I know I made a significant contribution for my team. In the end whether you win or not shoukd not play a role. LP gains will come on their own eventually.
>Obviously you're a much better player than I am, but if I win 3x games in a row, and get \~54 LP, then lose one game for -37 I've ended up hardstuck for having a shit team. The games I won I was dominant in, kda of 5-8, games I lost I was still positive KDA, high KP, and still over my tier's cs rate.

LP distribution is a mystery to me as well. I don't want to rub it in your face but for comparison, I get 35-40LP and lose 14-20LP. Climbing is very easy at the moment, I just don't feel like playing that much. However, I exclusively play against people 1,5 tiers above me, which is weird as well.

People say it's some secret MMR matching (or not) your rank having the impact on gains but still I find it ridiculous. Even in most extreme cases of "boosted" people, it shouldn't be more than +25/-25 LP, it's discouraging.

I hope the new split brings some sort of reset and your LP gains fix. It annoys me so much, how big of a factor luck has in this game, like how are you supposed to climb if one loss negates two wins.
Then you need to Play more Games. In my opinion, If you have less then 400-500 Games, you are Not where you belong.
Your mates do Not matter, your enemys do Not matter. You will have Games where you int it and still win and you will have Games where your whole Team is ahead and you still lose.
If you manage to do the right things and Take the Low Risk/ high reward plays more often then Not...then, over time you will climbe.

So try to identyfy what are those plays are, Look at your mistakes and over time you will climb :)

Good luck Mate
you win some you lose some. Sometime you are unlucky and get Hwei on your team in a streak like I did for the past few days.

The LP gain/ loss depend on the combined team MMR gap and other factors I think. The game will give you less LP if it gives you the match that is more in your favor.
I understand And Ive been there. Best advise I can give, is find a champ you love, because you have fun in wins and losses, and find 1-3 alternative picks. Then spamm them. Eventually you’ll learn the matchups and your win cons
Your MMR is way below your visual rank which is why you have negative LP gains, so you’re actually matched with worse players than what your visual rank suggests, [here’s](https://youtu.be/M6w-vmOAo38?si=2V_cmY2CcrL43-UY) a video explaining it.
Tyvm my man!! It’s fine, haters can have opinions, they’re not gonna change mine :)
You are not „the guy“
You are one of 1/3 of the comment section.
You are not special
The point is to flatten the rank distribution.

Old plat used to be percentiles 4-18ish
New plat is 17-33ish

So yeah.
It’s not a 1 to 1.
But statistically,
Plat largely encompasses Gold level players from last split.
And it’s diamond+ that is largely unchanged.
Big difference between staying at a rank and taking a rank. 

Glgl on your adventure in this toxic pissfest
Yeah it's honestly beyond sad at this point.

10 years and reaching anything below masters you are literally giga turbo omega pisslow.
Feel free to ask me anything you want to know: what questions bother your mind
Average dickhead league player
We don't even know how much he played lol

Jumping at the first opportunity you can to shit on someone's achievement is bad.

Good job on hitting plat OP 👏
A person with the ability to read might notice that I specifically said that I never pushed past gold before.

Thank you for your input, but bro, why are you so toxic?
[removed]
get a life
Frfrnocap
You do realize that people live lives outside of League and that other games (that are much better for your health) exist? You're a douche. And you suck at league.
Thanks for the offer, but I prefer either soloQ, or duoing with my friends in high gold or plat themselves.
It happens eventually, honestly, as long as you have fun, it’s all fine. You get there eventually
Play and play for yourself
Mooh
Possible. MMR is weird sometimes
🖐️👏
Usually carry junglers, with average weakside midlane picks every now and then
Haha good one😂 I have a decent enough one, but that has hardly to do with my rank. Unless I start streaming or smth, but I am definitely not good or interesting enough for that
I heard this from friends in emerald, they also said that emerald is even worse. Doesn‘t matter to me, if someone annoys me ingame, I‘ll just mute and keep playing. Game is about fun after all and if anyone tries to ruin that it’s best to ignore them
Please read the comments before copypastaing the others
You are not bursting anything.
Unless riot removes the tier, I reached my goal of hitting plat for the first time. And for the love of god read comments, as multiple people already said that
Em2-1 is closer to d4 than to p1 if I remember right through rank distribution graphs, unless my memory is shit and I'm making shit up
That's just not true, the shift is circa half a tier. E1 and E2 are composed of old D3 and D4, E3 and E4 are composed of old P1 and P2.
Ouin ouin ouin, ouin ouin ouin ouin, ouin ouin.
That is exactly what they intented and what the purpose of emerald was.

To inflate low elos (thus 90% of the playerbase) into a higher rank.

So they think they improved and got better and bla bla bla which makes them happy which means more money. Plus reduce the classic lowbie cope which is "I am good but my team is bad thus I can't climb"
Good for u op!!!
Hey man I was just making a joke but if this satisfies you I'd say congratulations. Try to achieve Emerald next split so you can shut everyone.
Sad. Your goal should be to improve.
I think he just doesn't care... he said his goal was plat and he got it... that's it lol
Bullshit. Gold or below is over half the player base. If you are plat, you’re mid elo and you should be happy about that. No one here is making money off this game.
You're getting downvoted, but you're right. It's as simple as looking at percentiles. Plat 4 is about the same percentile as Gold 3 last split. 

I say this as someone who also hit plat for the first time. It still feels good, but I do recognize nothing really changed here.
In all fairness I have played 7 games of ranked this season and am gold 1. The last few games have had multiple emerald players in em which I find a bit odd.
Not sure why you got downvoted  im plat2 and I get players from unranked/silver-emerald 4
Maybe some players used the "Elo disruption" to actually become better players? 

You could learn a lot in the weeks after Emerald was introduced.
disagree all u want, doesnt make  you any less wrong. go look up the rank distribution lol
Dude it's just a fact. The numbers say so, most players' experience proves it. You cannot disagree with that.

I've always been somewhere between gold 2 and plat 3 and this season I'm suddenly, magically climbing easily to plat 2 - emerald 3. 

Guess why... 

Congrats on climbing but don't be blind to the fact that it's far (far far far) easier to do so this season.
You can't disagree with a fact lmao
It's a statistic though, not some "community feel" or something. Just look up rank distribution in s13s1 and s13s2 and compare them, you'll see that all the lower elos got moved up towards emerald
i had never seen such a clear brainwash marketing tactic work so well.
He's bragging on reddit how he reached a new peak when he literally went up a single division.
Npc comment
Not really, it’s low gold 3
Bro from memory emerald is g1 to d4, so I don't think hitting plat would be g2.
Yeah, I hate this game. Had to make a backup just to increase my chances of getting Emerald next year.
Whats your most popular champion(s) you play in jgl for that purpose?
I thought that was obvious. Yes that is exactly what happened lol
Ofc the difference between gold and play isn’t too big. But what I mean is that it’s easier to hit plat compared now. High plat is low emerald and low plat is high plat. Also means many gold players are in low plat and etc
You can disagree but it doesn't mean you're any less delusional. Suppose you had 100 players. He was rank 70 in said players, then they changed the title of being rank 70, but he's still rank 70. That's all that's happened here.
I changed nothing about myself. Im 32 and honestly nowhere near as good as i was 6 years ago and i strolled into plat with a <40% winrate.
Man, you are embarassing yourself...

I'm stuck Plat 4 to Plat 1 for 3 years and this season I'm Emerald 2 to Emerald 3.

Just read about the rank distribution... Sorry for you, it should feel really bad if you genuinely believe you achieved anything
Not everyone knows this apparently. And mmr is the only thing that counts but riot implements emerald to placebo people into thinking that there is progress so they play more. I think it’s important to remind this. I’m really sorry for anyone I hurt with this truth, congratulations on plat you are making progress :)))
I’m all for celebrating achievements, when they’re actually reached… that is what gives it value. I can’t sit and pat someone on the back that falsely think they reached old season plat when riot changed the labels. That takes away from the achievements of others as well. Keep it real instead, old plat is current emerald according to the distribution, no progress was made rank wise for op, it is what it is.
Like I understand their point, but at the same time. Plat is plat. We improved over the years and just because there's inflation, doesn't mean the inflation is the *only* reason why we got there.
Good for you. Try to reach Emerald then. I'd reckon it would be a much better ego boost since it's closer to the rank you are actually aiming for! Best of luck
Eh. Gold is really one of those ranks that G4 and G2 aren't THAT different. Yeah you can find people that COULD reach plat in G2 and people that SHOULD be silver in G4 but the average G4-2 experience is pretty much the same. 

If anything I'd argue it's harder to play with lower rated teammates than with higher rated opponents at such a low difference in skill.
I will will say that this guy is right. I have an account hardstuck bronze 4 (my main). Though I made a fresh account and climb the other day and got gold 4. So something is off...
Yeah, this just means your MMR is much higher than your visible rank. It's the same for me as well. I was Gold 1 constantly getting full Emerald games lol. But I could lose 2, win 1, and still climb. I just wish we could go back to having one value that determined your skill instead of one visible one and one hidden one.
Your MMR is above your visual rank (you’re matched with people higher than your visual rank). This means you have positive LP gains, here’s a [video](https://youtu.be/M6w-vmOAo38?si=2V_cmY2CcrL43-UY) explaining it.
People aren’t “haters” for telling you the truth. Congrats on plat but it isn’t old season plat, that is emerald if you compare the ranked distributions.
You’re basing it off of an old% 
Largely undeserved by most of they can’t get back to the place they used to be.
I meant im 3 weeks into this game big bro
Well, for starters I specifically said that I never bothered to push past gold. So I was gold for 7 years, with last season ending in silver because of elden ring, and this season me giving more effort to actually improve. 
Good to you to be dia, but honestly, I don’t care about how easy you reached diamond my man
You have been playing for 10 years and you are platinum. I was on east Diamond 1 and after acc stolen and not returned. Now after 4 years of "pause" i am at west now gold 2 in 1 month. No way to play this game for me.
lmao that shit is sad, took bro 10 years to get to an average rank
lmao
DO IT U ~~WONT~~ Cant!
Mute all and climb is a vibe :)
I don't care about other people's comments. Therefore I don't read them. I read "your" post and answered....*facepalm*...*sigh* I'm sorry your dream of being decent were shattered and you're still garbage at the game.
Have you really reached your goal? You needed riot to move the goal post for you and you just accept that? Being plat last split means something else than being plat this split. (to many people at least, same low in my eyes)
No E2-1 is OLD low mid plat 
D4 Today is high OLD plat.
Thats why people say new master players are hardstucks mid high diamonds players from last season.
You’re referring to outdated data cause you’re probably looking at a screenshot comparison from early distribution in split 2, if you look at the current distribution (e.g 
https://www.op.gg/statistics/tiers) you can see old diamond and current diamond is top 3,6% almost exactly and old plat goes from top 15.5% to top 5.7% which is almost current emerald with the exception of current emerald also including old gold 1 70 LP+ ish.
He's saying the truth lol
People still deny this and take "pride" after 10 years they "improved" magically after THIS change.
The alleged purpose of the change was to flatten the bell curve that was overly populated at the silver mark. Flattening the curve means climbing will me more linear and progression more visible which also help retain players so it's in their best interest. I am sure they realized this would also inflate ranks and they were likely happy with this too for the reasons you mentioned, but I'd like to believe this wasn't the major reason as to why they added emerald. Ultimately neither you or me know the actual truth or reason so go ahead and stop speaking in absolutes.
It's both. Plenty of silver 2's stayed silver 2. Basically last split 50% of the player base was bottom of b1-top of g4. Now that range has extended to b1-top of p4. It inflated a lot of people but it also separated a lot of people out that didn't really belong in s2/s3 by keeping them there. That + natural variance in elo range basically means unless you're steadily 500 or so elo above last split - you probably didn't improve. 

All that is to say - visual rank and mmr being disconnected + the tiers themselves lead to a crazy toxic experience before even accounting for these changes. I think the rank system is responsible for most of the toxicity in league - the rest is probably an even share between late stage capitalism and young players.
Yeah, I kind of feel bad for him. That much involved in the game that he posts stuff on social media and yet so ignorant about the game !
I swear the percentage of player that were gold before the introduction of emerald rank is very similar to plat after emerald introduction. If you were gold 2 on s13s1 you should be around plat3/plat2 in s13s2. It’s just what riot wanted to do with emerald and it works since we see so many post like this one where they are happy getting a new fake rank.
Well its not bullshit, its just a simple fact. But I agree with the rest of your comment.
Gold or below is over half of the ranked player base. Most players don't play ranked. A gold ranked player is probably somewhere in the top 30% of the total playerbase
I'd look more into percentils than ranks. I would say it would matter if you're gold or plat if you're still top 10%
People usually talk about comparing to your old self instead of others. Truth is, if you were gold last split and platinum this one, you probably didn't improve at the game.
im getting downvoted because people feel attacked, I'm Emerald 4 myself and i get a ton of gold/plat players in my lobbys. imho its all the same from silver 1 to emerald 4, if you're getting emerald 2/1 you're platinum level like the seasons before, and diamond really stayed the same.
INTRODUCING

EMERALD RANK

SET 10 INTRODUCES EMERALD RANK TO TFT! EMERALD SITS BETWEEN PLATINUM AND DIAMOND, AND PROVIDES MORE MEANINGFUL SKILL MILESTONES DURING YOUR RANKED CLIMB.

READ THE FAQ TO LEARN MORE
Whatever man, I honestly don‘t mind anything regarding emerald. The numbers indeed don’t lie, and the most players are still between bronze and gold. Whether it became easier or harder, I got plat when trying to push it for the first time, thats what matters to me.
Its not even a fact, a fact would be saying platin exists, but saying plat is last years gold is simply your opinion
And honestly, why do you care so much about that
Npc comment
It's high gold 4 even.
What lmao, how do you conclude one new tier would mean a shift of more than double that? Emerald is D3-D4 and P1-P2, P3-P4 is G1-G2
Emerald does not include old diamond
I usually play a lot of rengar, definetly my biggest LP-gainer this season, and also my favorite champ.
If he is unsble or a very bad option, I stick to elise/evelynn for ap, or zac/ juggernaut-shyvana for tankier options. 
I might add I play shyv with triforce and hydra, then the tank items. 
You deal a lot of damage while also being tanky, I honestly dont like ap shyv.
I feel like sticking to metapicks lile j4 and noc is too risky for me, as they are highly picked or banned, or people are used to play against them.
Well they are but it is because mmr did reset. Ppl had no chance in climbing because their mmr kept them back.

For example i got 16 lose streak in preseason 9 (bcs ofc ppl would troll in preseason i was idiot to play it) and that lose streak had HUGE impact on my mmr ,until there was mmr reset that came from adding emerald (from start i was getting smth like +7 -35 so even though i had 65% winrate i had at best stagnated in ranks my last 3 years)

To better understand why was there such difference in my mmr elo and my elo is because preseason had absolutly no effect on where did you start next season (btw it took me 3 years to get to ±18 per game)
Your mental fortitude is insane.
Ppl can literally just look at the distributions and see that gold 4 before is exactly what plat 4 is now and for some reason people think they got better when in reality they're just going back to their proper rating according to the new distribution. 

For some reason this sub has a hard on for preventing people making the posters aware of that fact in some kind of "ignorance is bliss" angle.
How is "I am at the same mmr as last year" an improvement?

I get just wanting to get the label, but acting as you improved when in fact Riot simply changed the label is misguided af.
Actually just checked the new rank distribution. I was wondering why the hell the plat players in my games were so braindead. It’s not the plat I used to know
People who tell the truth have mostly been purged from Reddit, the people who remain are the “you go qween” type.
who cares? plat is plat period 💅
You’re actually dumb if you think E4-E1 is the same as old P4-P1. The likely scenario is that E4 = old P3-P2 and E3 = old P2-P1.

But fuck it, it’s the league community so this is too hard to understand. Just stay out of my games with your first-order thinking.
Yeah, of course it’s based on old %. Duh.
That’s why people are saying Plat is gold.
Because the percentiles of plat this season,
Largely match up with the percentiles of gold last season.

My point is that if the old system had the top 18% at plat+,
And the new distribution is the top 17% at Emerald+,
That’s a fixed percentile.

You can’t say the new 33 percentile is the same as the old 18 percentile.
Your math doesn’t math.

And if you can’t understand that,
Then 🤷‍♀️
Yes that means you can have played a decent amount of ranked games yet
what
U should do something else 100%
Plat is very much not at all average, its *above* average, bronze-gold is average
Everyone is diff, I took a year to hit dia. Don't randomly flame people, it's not like he inted your LP or said he's high elo
I don't play jg but you sound like one that full clears with an Elise/Lee and then blames the team for losing.
Well aren't you a breath of fresh air lmfao
That's.. not how it works, not even close. It doesn't even logically make sense what you suggest if you think about it for a minute.

The change doesn't apply upward pressure above the new tier (Emerald), it goes downward. Diamond is a smaller percentile of players with the new tier, with most of D3-D4 being moved down into E1-E2 and D1-D2 being distributed over all 4 ranks of Diamond.

Most of P1-P2 got pushed up into E3-E4, not E1.

&#x200B;

https://i.imgur.com/fQ4uGlk.png
??????? Bro I peak low master I’ve been stuck emerald 2 for a month before getting back stuck to mid Diam lol
Dude... Hard to look at statistics before trying to be correct but coming out as an idiot instead?

I literally checked it before as I was curious what the rank changes did and what rank I would be last season compared to this season using player rank distribution
Masters hasn't changed. Masters 1lp is still like top 17k and if you go to 50lp you're in top 10k, nothing has changed xd
Sources?
Buddy for 12 years the "bell curve" was fine but now suddenly in 2023 we have a problem and it needs to be more flat ?

Yeah not really. But even if that was the case, you could deflate people ? Why didn't they do that ? Make a rank below iron and then everyone would be a rank lower. Ohh but right, no money that way.

It's super obvious why they did what they did.
I'm fairly certain the reason they changed it was because it isn't intuitive for your only your top 15% to be platinum. People who were top 20 to 30% were Gold 1 to Gold 3, and most people intuitively, or as a result of others perceptions pushed on them, see Gold as "average" but by definition they were clearly above average players. Now those same players are platinum and may be considered above average, even though their ladder position hasn't changed.

So although people now think they have improved when they haven't, what they have gained is a new appreciation for the level they were already at.

Gold IV is now around 50%, meaning if you hit gold, you are an average player, and as you climb gold you become slightly better than average until you surpass that clearly when you hit Plat IV at around 30%.

Also I saw your video featured on the BBC, super motivational stuff dude!
Top 10% is emerald 3 . . .
It's not an opionion it's the exact same percentile...

&#x200B;

https://www.reddit.com/r/leagueoflegends/comments/154jjox/league\_new\_rank\_system\_conversion\_for\_version\_1314/
Welp what I said was based of what I remembered of this post earlier. 

https://www.reddit.com/r/leagueoflegends/s/Q5vJm0LclQ
Just checked and actually it does (as long as the graphs here are right).

https://www.reddit.com/r/leagueoflegends/s/Q5vJm0LclQ
Oh yes that's a great champ pool for climbing. 

Especially the Shyvana pick💀,dear god I play against that menace more often than I like. 

So I don't know if you play league purely based on skill and outplaying your opponent or if you also focus on macro, but when you get to learn that, the climb becomes much more bearable. 

For me atleast, it hugely improved my efficency each game.
I did improve and my MMR was much lower last year. I didn't go from gold, I went from bottom of silver to plat this year.

Regardless I still had to improve and there's still the same amount of ranks to get there.

Also your subjective opinion on whether or not someone else improved without seeing their gameplay or anything else is completely worthless just like the naysaying comments 😂
Oh don't worry! Emerald is even worse and low diamond even worse than that! Have fun in your adventures against the worst MMR season of all time!!
Yes the rank this person reached is plat, but they were comparing their previous ranks with their current rank. If we are comparing current plat, it’s not previous plat.

Why do people care? Idk, but OP seems to care, you randomly seem to care to some degree.

Why do I care about this issue? I like truth. I think we are doing people a disservice by lying to them. I think we are doing people a disservice by celebrating false accomplishments. The truth of the matter is, OP is lower on the ladder than then were in previous seasons, and if they are trying to celebrate their ranked achievements, they should actually rank up.
Delusion is crazy
The irony in you calling me dumb. I'm basing my claim on actual statistics, "the likely scenario", do you think we're playing a fucking guessing game?   
Current emerald on EUW has a [cumulative distribution](https://www.op.gg/statistics/tiers) percentage between top 16.6% to top 5.22%. Comparatively the same [cumulative distribution at the end of split 1](https://i.gyazo.com/7c5253b9ffb2657b7e415a3652c680f0.png) had plat IV to plat 1 range between top 15.5% to top 5.7%, so in fact old P4 was harder to get than current E4, current E4 is even representing old G1 70LP ish, the opposite to what your neanderthal ass believed.
actually if you look at the new rank distributions, the lowest players in emerald have old gold 1-2 mmr and the highest emerald players have old diamond 4 mmr. furthermore, the new plat is mostly gold with silver mmr at the very bottom. the range of high gold to low diamond in what is now emerald was how they were able to flatten out the concentration of players in silver. now silver, gold, platinum, and emerald roughly have the same amount of players instead of silver hogging a literal third of the entire playerbase.
Stop using percentile, you might confuse him with such big words.
People like you are reason to leave game.
cope more
How come are most of my friends who were hardstuck in gold2 last season r in emerald 4 with over 400 games now?
You’re looking at old/early data of split 2 that is incorrect now, diamond is top 3,6% today just as before the change. Old plat almost exactly resembles current emerald (it includes some of gold 1 70LP+) refer to any current ranked distribution data e.g 
https://www.op.gg/statistics/tiers for EUW
Here are the sources.

Current ranked distribution:

[https://www.op.gg/statistics/tiers](https://www.op.gg/statistics/tiers)[https://www.leagueofgraphs.com/rankings/rank-distribution](https://www.leagueofgraphs.com/rankings/rank-distribution)

Ranked distribution at the end of split 1:

[https://www.esportstales.com/league-of-legends/rank-distribution-percentage-of-players-by-tier](https://www.esportstales.com/league-of-legends/rank-distribution-percentage-of-players-by-tier)

[Screenshot of the cumulative distribution percentages from website above](https://i.gyazo.com/7c5253b9ffb2657b7e415a3652c680f0.png)

Current Plat IV is top 32.5% representing old G4 70 LP ish. So OP hit a rank of old G4 70 LP.
Dude you are completely wrong xD

Iron didn't exist before season 9, this alone completely invalidates your whole point.

But the fun part is that the bell curve was never fine, they constantly changed the ranked system, early seasons stopped at gold...

Are you a new player?
Good point, glad you liked you found it inspirational, I never expected them to feature me like that!
Yeah, i didnt say it because i knew what the top 10% was, i was giving an example.
His entire post is based off a visually demonstrative graph (with no y axis value) that Riot gave in patch notes, I suppose intending to showcase flattening the curve. It's very far off from the real effect that Riot definitely knew it would have.

[https://i.imgur.com/fQ4uGlk.png](https://i.imgur.com/fQ4uGlk.png)
As u/Sorest1 pointed out, that is old data, and based off of an illustrative graph at the beginning of the split.

Emerald is now almost exactly old platinum.
It's not subjective to look at "you were at gold last season, which puts you at X rank compared to others, which is equivalent to plat this year".

Just for the sake of illustration, imagine you always get a bronze medal at the Olympics, every year for teen years straight. You always tell yourself "hey, I want to at least get silver".

Then one year the switch it up, and now bronze is second place and silver is third. You place third, but hey you got your silver medal, so good for you? (and, again, it's for the sake of illustration, winning a medal at the Olympics is an achievement not many can claim)

This is basically what's happening with the new rank. Like, yeah, you got the name of the rank you always wanted, but really you are still in the Same bracket as always.

If that's enough, then good for you, but don't think is subjective
Please leave. We don't want toxic people like you in the game.
They.. Got better at the game? LMAO why do you hate your friends so much
Because adding emerald boosted everyone like 400 lp so now everyone is like "my peak rank" but unless you're like 600lp above last split, nothing changed.
Like I said, its super obvious why they do what they do but I guess not for everyone.

Inflating people so they become happy and spend money. Plus reduce the classic low elo cope complaints of "my team is bad and that's why I cant climb". That was the reason all along.

There was never a problem with the curve because guess what, the mmr curve aka real elo is still the same. That didn't change a bit since ever. And that is what matters when we are talking about the ranked curves since that is what determines actual skill level and elo.

The only way to change the actual curve, is to force your players to become better. Which is impossible.
You guys can now stop guessing, here's the data currently:Current emerald on EUW has a [cumulative distribution](https://www.op.gg/statistics/tiers) percentage between top 16.6% to top 5.22%. Comparatively the same [cumulative distribution at the end of split 1](https://i.gyazo.com/7c5253b9ffb2657b7e415a3652c680f0.png) had plat IV to plat 1 range between top 15.5% to top 5.7%, so old P4 was harder to get than current E4, reaching current E4 0 LP is representing old G1 70LP ish. [(Split 1 distribtuion source)](https://www.esportstales.com/league-of-legends/rank-distribution-percentage-of-players-by-tier)

Current Plat IV is top 32.5% representing old G4 70 LP ish. So OP hit a rank of old G4 70 LP.
No the part of improvement is subjective. You don't know if he switch up his playstyle, you don't know if it's his peak, you don't know if he got better at cs, macro, or anything. So just saying "no fuck you, the MMR is the same you're still a gold shitter" isn't very conductive or well meaning. It's just mean spirited comment from a very salty league player who probably believes that emerald is the issue plaguing ranked.

And technically speaking the MMR is only roughly the same. No one Actually knows. The only people who know is riot and they haven't said anything about it to my knowledge. There's still the same amount of LP from iron 4 to plat 4 as there always has been since both ranks existed.
I am toxic bcs i want play ranked serious? Have fun guys
Not by much, E4 0 LP on EUW represent top 16.5% which roughly equates to old G1 70LP, So they're slightly better at best but hovering same range. We don't have to guess guys there are data, it's not hard to understand unless you're a neanderthal and failed elementary school math.
People just don't like to look at statistics. More's the pity.
Wasn't even 9AM yet
I told him please type more I need more content for Reddit. He immediately unfriended me 😓
It’s never a nice message when you get a friend request lol
Riots reaction: 1 game chat restriction
Easy ban. Think death threats are just straight to perma too.
308 Negra Arroyo lane
I read the Riot message along the top as: "remember, riot employees will never ask for your address while assaulting you".

The brain works in mysterious ways.
Jokes on him I live alone
Clear anger issues evident here. Sad these people let a game get a chokehold on their emotions.
Why does he want to laugh at your family?
Give him an address to a police station 
adc main detected
I always tell them what city i live in, and tell them to come fight me irl and that they are probably as bad at fighting as they are at league. 

  
For some reason i never got a proper response yet.
You are more likely to run into the most degenerate scum like this when playing during regular work week hours. Most of these losers are unemployed and live on the game.
Tbh.. i dont mind toxic people.. its fixed by a single button.. but GOD i hate it when someone ints me on purpose.
Report them with a ticket on the website. This screenshot alone should be enough for a temporary ban.
Sounds like a perfect opportunity for a 1v1
I like the dichotomy of riot employees never asking fir info and the guys coming g straight inwith what's your address
Whenever someone flames me I always respond with "we are same rank/MMR" and it either shuts them up or sents them into tilt overdrive. 

Like mate, why are you pissed I'm trying a slightly off meta build in a non-ranked bronze MMR game? If you are so good why did we get matched up.
Just send him his address, ip, and family name to make sure the job is done!

/s
I wish you could report pm’s for this very reason
i only add them when im recording video or trying to take screnshots, easy 2 weeks breaks after ticket with that screen
Someone told me something like this one time and the only response I could think of was 

“With your damage numbers, I don’t think you could.”
I'd be like "Dinner first. Then foreplay. Cmon we talked about this"
What a nice guy, he is offering to provide laughter to your family.
Honestly, the most toxic people are plahing early in the morning... one time, i played an ARENA match before work and got flammed after losing one round.

(We ended up getting 1st)
After being 14 years oldand am 24 now I just can’t believe people like this still exist
Submit a ticket online with this screenshot. I do this with these people and it’s only 2-3 days before they get banned
did you ruin his promos to silver or something?
Surley im not the only one who finds these funny af
Tell him a random GPS location in the middle of the Atlantic with a "come get me bro" message.
"skill issue" my immediate answer
Ah looks very friendly (toplaner standard)
Thats a report if I have seen one
Riot must enable report for the chats, not solo for in game/post game.
Once I got 14days for calling someone “noob” btw
Altschauerberg 8, 91448 Emskirchen, Germany
So its ok to threat somebody with killing him in game but irl I would go to jail?
My favorite game when someone sends a friend request to flame after the game goes like this:

1. Write out a message that you know will only infuriate them even more. Something along the lines of "I think you should take a break! It's too bad that you are so upset!", just to irk them as they want you to engage with them.
2. Copy that message to the clipboard
3. Move your general friends tab to the top and open it
4. Accept them, and open the chat box with them, paste it and hit enter, then delete them before they can respond

There have been a few times where I do this and they add me back immediately afterwards and even 3/4 times in total. They are so bizarre
Nah they are pussies, even when you tell them your adress, they just shit on you and that's all, boring
To be fair he probably hadn't slept since yesterday.
I send thrm the address to a psych ward
[it’s 7 in the morning 🗣️🗣️🗣️](https://youtu.be/acuFh5kuAk8?si=WLEZiR0DDxa311Pf)
Nice, report him to the police
report him, death threats guarantee at least a 14 day ban. Dont ask how i know that
Frustrating, disgusting to write this before 9am actually 😂
What playing league does to a mf
U defintitly said something in advance to get a reaction like this no?
I always accept and wait what day say i love that.
Idk this is just so entertaining to me.

I.agine beeing the person who adds someone just to write that.

Its a mix between amusement and pity everytime becouse how shit must youre mife have been to act like this.
Everyone here thinks Riot doesn't ban for this just because "i reported once and nothing happened". Have you ever heard of repeating offences? If it is the first time they have been reported, nothing will happeb but if it is multiple, he is gone. Just because you check their op.gg doesn't mean you know if they got a penalty or not..
the BEST best way to handle salt friend requests at the end of games is to:

Don't accept, wait a few days.

Accept, say nothing, wait a few more days.

Invite them to play ranked, be super chill.

when queue pops, unfriend them, run it down, steal their CS, fuck up their game as much as possible. But in like.. plausibly deniable ways. 'I was just roaming to gank you! those tower shots were an accident.' 'I swear that usually works for me'. 'nah man I think the problem is you just don't know how to play well with my teemo jungle ganks'

Theeeen rinse and repeat if they try add you back after the game.
Ngl i would give him the adress NA tag really tells me enough to know he aint doing shit
Average Jungle Experience 👌🏼
Knew a guy once who worked in cybersecurity. Wasn't on league, but he had someone try this shit on him once.

Took him a couple of minutes to respond, but when he did, it was with a Google street view of the guy's house and the message "Don't trouble yourself. I'll be there shortly. :)"

Don't think he ever got a response out of the guy.
Me when I troll a game, accept friend request from a person I trolled and make reddit post about their message to get upvotes
ahhh classic NA
At some point there should be an internet ban
Like a granny whos to old to drive there are some to emotional to play games
you tell him you live on the border of ukraine and russia
Don't worry, the important thing is that Riot will launch another very expensive skin and make a profit from it. 🤡
That guy needs a break from League tbh...
you are absolutely right this is too short and there are not enough expletives and the over all quality of the insults is bottom tier.
i dont know why u still playing that game im so prouf of me quitting for 8 months straight
a guy here in brazil sued someone over league chat, im pretty sure if you wanted to you could also do it lol
I’ll send em my address if dude on here lets tango
Well tough guy... did you ever drop the addy? We need more to this op. Please record the interaction for research purposes.
send him the address of the white house


1600 Pennsylvania Ave. Washington DC
Has any one reported this person?  If not I will
did u tell him ur tough
I love those I usually turn on the stream for my friends on discord so we all can have a good laugh. Of course I heat it up a bit more so it's more funny.
Whenever I get messages like this I always screenshot and send it directly to Riot support I actually usually end up getting a free chest for it after the investigation proves that it’s true
I would have responded with the address of either the white house or a random police station
usually these creatures are only out at night...
I finally had a nice add. enemy team guy added me and said gg. can we duo? 

i assumed he was going to talk shit for some reason at first.
Report it to riot support that ban people like that
Had to have been a darius or something right?
You just know they hadn't slept yet and were rage queueing  alllll night
The 1 time i had someone hit me with the hard R a few times in PM like this and when reported to riot, was effectively hit with “since its PM between friends theres nothing we can do”
I always add only people who are chill and play well.
9am for you but clearly this guy never went to bed
I used to accept the request wait 5 seconds and then unfriend them while I believed they were typing their hate storm. It lead to him sending more friend requests and falling for it for a good 5 minutes
I haven't played league in about a year and this came up on my recommended. Used to add people and drop my full address and beg them to come get me. Not to fight me, hopefully to put me down like the pitiful dog I am.
Basically this guy is my opposite, I need him
i love doing this
I would reply with a "k" and ghost him
You should've gave him the address of the nearest chipotle
Invite some friends over, drop a random address that isnt yours, and beat his ass for threatening to slaughter your family under the legal guise that “you were afraid for your families health and safety”
I always accept the friend request, send them a Betterhelp.com link, and delete them before they can type anything… Jungle life is hard man
I once got a friend request from a guy who was cursing at me all game and accepted after i finished another game, the guy hasn’t said a word in private chat
well, at least they gave you a warning😂
One of the times it happened to me, the player told me he would come to my house to kill me, but not tomorrow, no, he gave a date 3 months later. A specific date that turned out to be exactly on my birthday. Strange coincidence and feeling.
Daily league of legends activites
I hope you reported him
Send him his own address.
"I'll come lsaughter ur entire family" 🤓🤓
1 time someone flamed the hell out of me after i accepted his friend request. I asked duoq? He send the invite and we played a game together xd.
It was 9 am for you but he’s been queuing for 24 hours straight 😂
I always accept the fr. If they open like this I submit a support ticket with a screen shot of the messages, then send the other player a screen shot of the support ticket. Tell him may the odds be ever in his favor and block. ☺️
Tell him you live in Xique-Xique, Bahia
i live for postgame messages like this. i wish people would message me more
What game is this and also WTF💀💀💀
Only good friend requests come either from ARAM or people looking to get carried
HAHAHZ
Pixels on a screen can get people to act like this
Just type out a message, copy it. Accept the request. Paste it and unfriend them. You know they gonna have an aneurism
I always accept the friend requests from haters. Send them a message “awwwh look how obsessed you are with me “and then delete them right after.
Give him the local precinct's address.
Why accept a friend request from him tho? he cannot message without your  explicit consent. 

This should really go without saying buuuut, you shouldn't accept friend requests from strangers on the internet. If you do and they flame or troll you, is it really on them that it happened? we're all adults here. Use common sense.
just give him a random address
If you took a picture of your screen, this dude is 110% justified.
Its those exact people who cant lay a hand on you even if you are right infront of them ,  they just have that  "power" behind the screen  so  i wouldnt  be worried 0.1% these things  always get what they want from their mother and therin mother is the only one working in the family.  I know these people on a personal level .
Big whoop OP

Did this meanie scare you?
I hear a lot of people asking what caused this x G U N N A R x guy to send a message like this. Since I am him I'll tell you. This lousy piece of shit chose to intentionally feed my game from champ select. He chose jungler when I was pre-selected as the jungler. He stole a lot of my camps early and then lost us the game when I had an 80% w/r on Hecarim at the time. Refused to go bot and support his ADC at all even though HE was the selected support. It's funny that this piece of shit is posting this for views after the bull shit he pulled!
Let’s stop banning each other
Bro check out my earlier post I was also "slaughter threatened" u wana come hang out? we are basically blood brothers now
That’s the nicest thing anyone’s ever said to me
I usually accept friend requests after a game and it’s 50/50 for chill/hate speech
I dont know why someone accepts this. Unless you want a duo and the guy was great and friendly in the prévious game
Ive had people add me and apologize for flaming, or someone from the enemy team add me and sat i deserved to win a game that i lost lol.  But yeah usually absolutely deranged messages tho.
Once a person of an opposing team gave me a friend request and wanted to duo. I was never so shocked in my entire life.
The trick is to give it a day or two then add them back. Now they’ve probably forgotten who you are and you have a new friend on your friends list!!!
It’s an absolutely funny message though
I always forget this. I sometimes add because I want duo. There was this riven smurfing and went 25 - 1. Her one death from me. I wanted to duo lol.
lol not necessarily..

I won’t lie I was so good for a good month but had a royal crash out and got chat/ranked restricted 

Now ofc, norms are just kinda whatever rank vs whatever so dropped a nuke on my OTP cause I just wanted to get rid of my 3 wins

Dude I was against was like “holy.. its Zeka” when we were in game and after he added me saying I inspired him to perma ban akali

Never felt so complimented as to be told I’ve scarred someone from a champ before thank you to that guy🙏
I've only friended nice people. It's kinda a no-brainer and your own fault ngl
I had one and someone actually gave me a compliment 😺
You know I’m actually surprised the amount of good ones I’ve had recently, suppose playing shen mean people like you more
That’s why I do the opposite XD they come expecting something bad andi just give them a compliment and move on
I play 90% aram and an occasional ranked on support role. The few times I got a friend request they were nice, inviting me to play again. Except one guy who wanted me to be his discord kitten...
I save and collect friend reqiests :^) currently at 5 but i think i can go a lot higher
I accepted a friend request, they invited me, we went on 3 games winstreak. Not a single word typed out until last game.
Got one yesterday for the first time. Velkoz support who was duoing with a Tahm Kench botlane.

He friended me, put a discord link in the messages and it was to his voice channel. Told me to play with the team as Fiora instead of sidelaning and listen to the carries to get carried.

Now I didn't play well, but he literally said he himself played perfectly while he had 11 deaths on Velkoz (vs a comp with little to no dive) and was telling me how he had more KP as a support than a Fiora toplane (duh, I'd be worried if you didn't)
“Oh hey a letter, I have friends! Ohhh that’s not a letter, that’s a threat.”
But the moment you tell a teammate that they should have been at baron and the game is gg you're instant week ban.
No they cant get any penalty for private messages.
Do they ip ban yet?
I thought u can't report DM's? Someone did that once and I couldn't figure out how to report them
Incorrect. Because this is personal chat, not in game chat. 

Typing anything in the in game chat will get you banned if anyone reports you. Literally anything you type. Not death threats, not bad words, or insults, typing anything in chat during a game will get you banned if enough people report you over the course of several matches. 

And then there's the client chat, for the people that you added or they added you. That chat is unchecked and you can type anything and nothing will ever happen. 

Unless someone takes a screenshot and sends a report to riot. And then, that is a big maybe because most reports that go through riot do not involve humans.
Sadly it depends on the support guy. Had a guy send death threats and threatened to doxx me(he send some personal infos). Did some screenshots and a ticket. Dude still played every day or so after that.
It’s not, I reported the same behaviour to support and the guy I reported still playing every day
Had a guy tell me to put a gun to my head and he was still playing a month later
SKYLER!!!
Perfect response lol
Bro it's fried, everyone you've ever sent that to is gonna show up on the same day and you're gonna have to Scott Pilgrim your way out of it.
tough guy
you can send a ticket if you want
It never works lol
That's good, but I'd go with; 

> "*162.192.1.253*"
then i doxx him and give his address and answer with "im your father"
Why play with chat on they need consent. Why read message on reddit need consent.
Why are you reading my comment close your eyes this could be hate speech do you consent?
Lmao, I didn't even notice until I read your comment. 

Good point.
Sounds like projection, kiddo.

OP had to consent to private chat with that guy, that's gg.
Are you just some random dude making stuff up? I was Rengar jg and this guy was a Nasus. Idk what you're on about
I wait a day and then accept them.  Gives them time to cool off.
You gotta do the hidden tech. Sit on the friend request for about 5 minutes, they'll think you bitched out and re queue for a game. 

Then you accept it, give them the mental help phone number, tell them to get the help they need and block them. 

They can't reply. You will forever have gotten the last word and they will rage all day
I have a group on my friends list named "Upset People" and it's everyone who has added me in rage and not deleted me after. I always just reply positively to them. Most recent guy felt the need to tell me his kda for the next few matches and I kept telling him he was doing great 😂
Literally 100% is hate speech
Same either it's a nice interaction and it's all cool or it's shit talk out the gates and I love messing with those people and then unadding them knowing they are absolutely fuming.
I just enjoy laughing at them. I think the disparity between how trivial I find video games and how deeply they care is just comical to me. Plus i kept him muted all game so it definitely leaves me curious
Not everyones a snowflake. This is funny asf to me
I always accept and then just respond with hahahahahha to whatever they say to tilt them more
I’ll do it sometimes to keep them typing so we don’t end up in the same queue
It's funny tbh
Just to see what they say
>  *I dont know why someone accepts this. Unless you want a duo and the guy was great and friendly in the prévious game* /u/mustachepc 


This.

Just to add to that; For people who are not native English speakers, it is fairly common send friend requests to players that are native speakers of the same language regardless of how the match went. For instance, Spanish is my native language but I'm the rare exception that vastly prefers to speak/type in English. The norm is as I described though and I have gotten many friend requests for that reason. I don't accept but still, the point stands.
You’re that bad at the game? Happens fairly often in my experience
yeaaaaah but do you really WANT that kind of person on your friends list?
Just that or the comment was reinforced with slurs or threats? Lmao
Tyler1 flames teammates on stream with thousands watch, Riot: 😁

Me flames, teammate when they don't listen to ping and gets ganked by jungler, Riot: 😡
Vanguard ban would be better than ip ban since it tracks the pc and ip changes
They don't but screenshots like these can get people 14 day vacations.
IP bans are dumb. You want hardware bans and I'm not sure if they do that yet.

The reason why IP bans are silly is that IP addresses are changing over time. It's not a clear identifier of one person.
You can report players via riot's support ticketing page.


https://support-leagueoflegends.riotgames.com/hc/en-us/
Yeah...you can submit a ticket but its not banable
Yeah no, I'm sure you might believe the ticket you have placed actually helped, and trust me when i say that i hope it did get them banned. But a direct message is not banable from my own experiences on the ticket i have placed. Also, there are many people that have stated this fact as well and have similar results. I am pretty sure this is based on the guidelines that riot has, but i also believe that some people may have gotten promising results because they get that riot employee that doesn't follow those guidelines and probably helps out every now and then. 

There might be a different explanation but this seems pretty close, at least to me.
No, if its multiple people you watch them beat the shit out of each other from a distance
Not really, just pulling the UNO reverse on them.   
They probably realize how stupid they sound when i try to make them come to me instead.
how do u do that? is there a report message button via client or would u have to go to their website
idk why ur being downdooted, ppl can't read ig. He's right, you can absolutely report for DMs via ticket, altho they require screenshot and likely wont do anything
I  don’t get it?
And how exactly do you doxx him ? Who is stupid enough to click a link in a pm
you really thought you did something here lmao
Im going to have to call you retarded  because im talking about the  guy threatening  the OP not the other way around .
Theres nothing funnier than accepting a request a day after and they forgot why they were mad at you, i have had a couple interactions start with some variation of "what was it you did again?"
Nah I defo gotta do this more. Would love to be rent free in their heads like that
Can't do this anymore since riot removed ingame friend chatting months ago... for this exact reason. I used to do this and spam hate messages for minutes on end so they wouldn't get ingame timers and text notifications😂
Nah this is just cringe. Nothing dumber than someone adding you to spam some shit then block you before you can even read it. I mean ok if it helps you lol  
In your case it's a bit different if they added and you do it, but same principle applies. If you can't take it don't accept, it's as if you flame someone ingame and if they finally talk back you insta mute
I need to start muting. I dont care about winning/losing but i hate when I become a hostage in a 40 minutes game because one guy is a troll and the other one tilts and doesnt FF
Fair, i didnt know that since my region is only portuguese
It’s true
Although it’s gotten better now but I’ve gotten permabanned 3x in the past for no slurs or threats at all
doesn’t matter
Tyler has been banned so many times man
Vanguard gets their entire family.
HA I screenshot my mid laner who said he hopes my "whole family gets raped by a big black man" and that I "should be gassed like the Jews" and the dude has been playing every day since. Didn't even get a 5-game solo que ban!
You spelt 1 game chat restriction wrong
i dont think they ban dms, would be really easy to fake a screenshot and get anyone i want banned
Nope not typically. “Shouldn’t have accepted the friend request.”

Threats are a little different but Riot doesn’t typically care if you accepted their request.
Hit or miss with this. I’ve gotten banned numerous times doing this but the tickets I send for others never get them banned.
Unfortunately, it's a PM. OP legit had to acknowledge the friend request, scroll the mouse to the accept button, then proceed to add the dude. He chose to add the dude on his own volition and now it's his personal problem. How do i know this? Because I submitted a ticket and didn't get anything back other than in short words, " we have reviewed your entry ticket and have concluded that since you added said person, he will not be penalized as it is a Private message from someone you selected and added as a friend. If in the future you meet someone that does not behave in the manner of our Terms of Service, please report and don't add said person". Did some research and many people, if not all, got the same response in similar situations. I do agree with the part where you shouldn't add randoms that are clearly going to flame you. You can usually 99% of the time see the flame coming from a mile away.

Edit: I want to add that I don't agree this is right, but the explanation did make some sense.
I've sent screenshots of people going on about how they'll r**e my family there, which seemingly weren't answered by automatic bots, that didn't cause the offending player to be banned.
Bro you can (obviously not worth though) literally go to the police with that… Of course it’s bannable.
yeah go to website and summit a ticket
you really dont get when someone says bullshit right
How is it any different? You are reading my message, thus you consent?  
Elaborate, tell your perspective instead of "lmao"
I like to wait a few minutes until they are in another game then accept and message them during it.
I've been doing it since season 1, just spreading the good word!
It's great. It'll infuriate them. Anyone who doesn't act like a child would just go "okay" and brush it off and cool down.
The only one who can make you a hostage is yourself
Yeah? your region is portuguese meaning you speak portuguese? actually, unrelated question but if you would..... I have a family member that is going to travel to portugal next year and has been learning a bit of portuguese. However, some of it was/is brazilian portuguese.

I understand that they are not the same thing but, how big is the difference between brazilian portuguese & portugal's portuguese? I don't trust the internet on this kind of thing. I've done translation/interpreting/localization work and I know how horrifically wrong the internet typically is when it comes to this kind of thing. Obrigado pose falar con voce sobre linguas e sus caracteristicas.
Wtf yes it does xD
"Son, why can't I queue up?"
Meanwhile I once got that restriction for typing "god Taric is so sexy I wanna fuck him so bad"
They could juat check your dms though.
They 100% have the data of your messages, as for the ban; there is legit an option for this on the support ticket page.
I had people banned for PMs before, and they weren't this bad.  You never know if they player wait until after the game to become aggressive or not.
Idk, I tried it like once 2-3 years ago and the person I reported I think was banned or quit league. May as well try takes like 5 mins or less. Do it while you're in queue or on the pooper
riot cant verify if these claims are correct they cant look at your personal chat and screenshots can be faked so nothing can be done
When I did they said don't accept friend requests equivalent response for hate speech+ death wishes
Cant mute or unfriend you during the game either :)
i usually do this then i spectate them and criticize all of their moves so they end up playing bad
Dude, its very different. But you can talk the brazilian portuguese you will be fine with Portugal portuguese
I'm portuguese as well. The difference is not that big, and most Portuguese people perfectly understand Portuguese from Brasil.

The other way arround might be harder (for brazilian people to understand Portuguese from Portugal) but all in all you should be okay.

Also, english is well understood in most part of the country (at least for young folks)
nonsense
Ezreal and Garen is working at Riot I think XD
Yeah no it’s so pathetic, my friend typed soraka has a pink dildo in her closet (there wasn’t even a soraka in the game) and he got chat restricted and honor locked 💀
I saw a Jax player typing something similar and getting banned

The double standard is insane ngl
I got a 1 week Text ban for "thrash!!!" because of Thresh hitting a Game winning hook. To this day i dont know why. To close to Trash? But why a text Ban for Trash?
i highly doubt riot has access to dms thats just a privacy issue
they dont ban you for dms anyway so
Really? I mean i thought it was a lost cause for me since i got that message, but it was about 2 years ago. Nevertheless, the situation and fragile mentality of people is a good enough reason for me to not add random people and avoid these situations. Unless i got some a-hole for my ticket. Still, be sceptical of randoms.
actually u can, if you tabbed out to client then you can block/unfriend. But yea, cant mute. And usually having to tabbed out is annoying so we almost always have the last words
Wow that is so evil and smart, definitely doing this next time
Alright, thanks.
How so? If you only say gg then you should not get banned, if you yell slurs and say gg you should get banned. It’s really simple
valid and deserved
I dont think its a privacy issue if its within the confines of their products and used for security/quality purposes.
bro. Yes they have access to your dms. Ofcourse they do lol.
Okay someone needs to tell you that none of your DMs are private…  not Facebook, IG, TikTok, twitter, Reddit. None of them
I got 2 people banned who told me to kill myself this year, guess it depends on the server and the support member.
Tell me about it.  I was I4 before i took a break, and I had people come at me like they'd lose their house if they lost the game.
anyone who says they got people banned for DMs is lying.
Not if they choose to close client when in-game to save 2 frames
Oh boy.. 

Hey i got a great amazing vacation house time share for sale with your name on it
bud a random riot support employee wont have access to ur dms aint no way thats not a thing
Proof ?
For my potato of a pc its saving way more than 2 frames
Im saying should, not that they are getting banned. Like do you read? Or only throw out vague one liners?
I sent a ticket and got a feedback report 2 days later, regarding chat usage (I didn't play after the ticket and that was my only match on the ticket day). Since player reports do not show up on your ticket history I can't give you anything as proof. Go try it yourself when another person tells you to kill yourself and see if it works.
Holy slow…. Id go down to 0 but I think you would still miss it. 

Hey… hey buddy… the very first response was sarca..ahh screw it you’re probably still grasping the first portion.  I’ll come back later
From my side after a player asked me to kms and I reported to support I got an email feedback that they took appropriate action but that they never disclose the results of their investigations. From opgg the guy continued to play normally when I checked a few days later so it seems they don't really care to ban.
Omg, literally shaking and crying rn
Thank heavens he's playing this again
Hello! Thanks for posting. This is a reminder about the rules. Make sure the post is appropriate and not to delegate or go against Reddit policy or r/Markiplier Rules. If this does break rules, please report it immediately. Posts that encourage raids on other subs or platforms is a bannable offense.

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/Markiplier) if you have any questions or concerns.*
didn't you hear? BOB AND WADE ARE DEAD TO HIM!!!
Why exactly are bob and wade not there
how much you wanna bet that a few dumdums will believe in the fake rant about bob and wade?
I love Bob and Wade, but Mark never does solo survival games. This is gonna be great
I miss kelvin omg
I was low-key pumped that he's playing this solo, the last SOTF playthrough with the three of them was stressing me out 😭 I love watching all three of them but sometimes ya boi needs a lil more chill vibes
Look...we all love Mark. But we watch games like this so we can get more of him with Bob & Wade. Or is it just me? It's not just me....right?
I’m so excited!
What happened with him, Bob and Wade, was he joking?????
I’m shaking, and also crying rn
HE’S BACK!🗣️🗣️🗣️🗣️🔥🔥🔥
# literally shaking and crying rn
I was waiting so long for this😭 disappointed bob and wade aren’t there but was only for a second. I love his solo plays of course and there will always be more of the 3 of them playing other games!! Super excited for this playthrough
I got the notification for this earlier, I can't wait till I'm off work
You should watch the [3 hour SovietWomble video essay](https://youtu.be/PUWg905fGTA?si=1bSZ6cAycx88lHqA) on it.
To this end, did anyone get the impression when the trio tried this the first time around that Mark was actually getting annoyed by Bob and Wade? Not har-dee-har-har annoyed but legitimately put out by them?
Shaking and crying rn
FEOPLE!
He gon die from fall damage at least 5 times in less than 10 episodes.
i love bob and wade but i’m SO excited for a solo play though of this.
I was literally wrapping up rewatching his forest series 15 minutes before he posted this
Yeah, like my god it’s been almost a year since he last played it with Bob and Wade. XD
WAIT I DIDNT SEE THIS THANKS DUDE
OMG THEY MUST ALL HATE EACH OTHER SGHDJDNEHDUEJEBH.
Perfect timing! I just finished my first playthrough of sotf with my buddy. Now I can watch Mark's series without being afraid of spoilers.
So glad he's back to SoTF, I was disappointed when he stopped playing it last year.
I figured it was bc he was at WAR with them after Bob destroyed his tent and Wade kept getting logs lol
I’m so happy he’s gonna be finishing the game finally I know a lot of people (myself included) were very sad that no new episodes were put out. But at the same time I loved watching Mark Bob and Wade interacting in the game and whatnot. Still really happy for the return can’t wait to see Mark and Kelvin in action lol
I haven’t stopped shaking and crying rn since I watched it.
Your shkncrn?
The only way to get rid of this is to use a different method
Lol
ARE YOU CLOSE?!
This is everything I wanted...with Bob and Wade. But I'll take what I can get.
If he wished to play a game that has humanoid monsters and its a single person game he should play Ad Infinitum. And yeah its better when the group is together.
~~Del Monte Ethan~~ Bob and Wade are dead to me.
Meanwhile I still waiting for him to play Resident Evil 4.
Mark doing God's work🥹..I'm so excited i hope he completes it!!
Shaking and crying?
I prefer not playing with Bob and Wade. They hinder game progress and i don't really get some of their jokes. Sometimes it seems like they're just mean to Mark and he's mean back, but most friends act like that I'm told. I've had people try to be those kinds of friends with me and i hated it. He just seems more.. Mark... when he plays without them.
hope you're hyperbole'ing
I feel like I’m less likely to watch this because he’s doing it solo
Ppl get that it's a joke right?
Prolly so he can actually finish the game not getting pummeled with logs and stabbed lol. I do wish they were there tho
Cus Mark with friends takes 15 episodes to do anything, but Mark alone does 15 episodes worth of things in 1 episode

He probably just wanted to experience the game when he’s actually trying to play and not just goof off and do dumb things with his friends
He says it in the first five minutes of the video! He hates them now.

/s
Cause they don’t focus on the game, wasn’t his house exploded? Also IGP or something has the same type of friends 😭 I don’t think they really wanted to play the game lol
We all know why
Because if you put all three together playing the same game, the collective IQ drops into the negatives.
Maybe they’re busy
Sometimes it's nice to do things alone and the game will be different because there is just him.
Just surf through the comments. There's already a few.
I did not watch the video yet but from what I remember when watching their sons of the forest series a while ago Bob and Wade were not really invested in the game that much and while Mark tried to progress and do stuff build etc. Wade and mostly Bob I think were just throwing logs at Mark, trolling him and just goofing around which I thing annoyed mister president. I think he is actually interested in the game itself that's why he did a solo playthrough without the gang and I don't think there is anything wrong with that. He just likes the game and they don't so why not let him play by himself.

I may be wrong on that one so feel free to correct me, just a thing i noticed that may have contributed to him playing by himself.
I am opposite, mark alone is the mark I know THE MARK ALONE IS THE MARK I KNOW **THE MARK ALONE IS THE MARK I KNOW**
Do not worry. It’s not just you
i like either
Tbh I much prefer solo mark playthroughs
Yeah, their trio is awesome
It's just you. He's not a collab channel like Vanoss.
Yep he explains in the video
…are YOU joking?
Sometimes wants to play the game and not have dumb and dumber make the video annoying
He already played this with bob and wade, he just hasn't finished it with them
Gonna miss bob & wade but im pretty sure with them he will never actually complete it.
https://youtu.be/WO2RcozhD8Y?feature=shared

It's a reference to this video
... yes, my comment is a joke too.
But I like the pummeling and stabbing :(
HeyAAAAAAAAA!
That's legit what he said in the video
I can not tell you how much this comment cracked me up. Thank you.
Hiiiiiyaaaaaa
Or they are busy
Mark said pretty much all of that in the video - he just wants to play it, Bob and wade didn't seem interested in it.
kind of, in the start they did get serious by the 2nd upload where they looked for a good spot to build camp and took a portion of the wall they'll build. Before they stopped recording the last part, they made a pretty decent shelter. Might just be an availability thing
This is a markiplier based comment, incase you didn’t get it 😄
His play of 'kids' and 'Plug and Play' still put me in stitches. That was my first Markiplier experience.
I wouldn’t say it’s just them but it definitely doesn’t reflect everyone. I like seeing them together but I really like horror content so I couldn’t really care less. Plus its mark and I haven’t skipped a video in who knows how long
Look everyone a bad opinion
I watched the first 2 seconds and went running to reddit for answers lol
Wow, I can’t believe you actually said that
bait used to be believable
It's crazy you say that about them bc Mark himself could be very irritating at times a while ago. I rewatch his fnaf playlist from time to time and he's extremely loud and spouts random stuff constantly. It gets tame by the time he gets to sec breach and in his "return to fnaf" videos he's a completely different person. Might be his meds, might be age, idk, but I'm betting on the meds

If you find Bob and Wade annoying today then idk how you watched Mark in the past
I will blast distractible into your house at full volume/hj
take a chill pill bud 💊
this is so rude😭😭
Haha yeah I've seen those, hopefully they will finish it .
Things you shouldn't say out of context, #1:
Are you by any chance, not a masochist?
Every time you hear this, someone is getting smacked in the face with a rock or log.
The clip mark used in the video of bob and wade was absolutely perfect. Anytime I think of wades constant heyAAAAAAAAA's I crack up.
I heard Wade say this during their Chained Together video and immediately remembered Sons of Forest haha
Yeah I just now finished it
Yeap just watched the vid aswell
Why? Wade and Bob completely changed their content to annoyingly loud collaborations with even louder annoying kids. Glad he's playing solo. To each their own
While I don’t want to theory craft why an actual person is the way the are, I’m going to do it anyway with the caveat of saying that whatever we think or say shouldn’t affect how we view him and we have to remember we are talking about an actual person.

that being said I think he was like that just because thats what got people to click on him at the time. Thats what a normal lets-player acted and sounded like in that era, and as we faded out of that era he experimented and found a style that suited him and he chilled out a bit more and started playing up angry emotions instead because he found it funny or because we found it funny. But also age probably has something to do with it maybe
why did you punctuate your comment with a handjob?
Definitely not. Not at all…
Ha I’m with you. Totally to each their own. Specifically to Marks own. Everyone needs to chill out and let Mark play how he wants to play. I love his dynamic with Bob and Wade. I also love his solo stuff. I’m happy he’s playing games at all, I don’t care what format he does, as long as he’s happy and doing it for himself.
😭😭
You're right, it must just be about seeing if you can take it.
Exactly. If I find them annoying sometimes it's not my job to clap. I've enjoyed some collabs with them but lately I just find it obnoxious like the chained together vids. Can't watch that type of video
Yeah, the only play through with them I enjoyed was Raft. I’m not a fan of them, so I usually just don’t watch those series, I’m glad I can watch this play through without bob and wade, cause the game seems interesting. Glad Mark enjoys playing with them, but they’re just not my speed.
account suspended for forgetting smite??
IM REALLY CONFUSED? I picked up league in 2020 but didn't really dive into playing extensively until last few months. I only started playing ranked literally last week. Prior to this incident I've only ever gotten AFK warnings because of d/c instances. Never in ranked, always in unranked.

Playing UNRANKED draft pick with two friends, I swapped roles with my jungle duo since he wanted to mid. I took smite but my mobalytics updated my spells, thinking I was mid, so no smite. I didn't realize until I couldn't buy jungle item. Sucks. I tried farming anyways but kept dying. I told team I wanted to ff at 15. 4th guy was a chill guy from my last game so he was fine with surrender, but my adc was SO UPSET and took my mistake personally I guess. Whatever.

He reports me and I get a 14 day ban??????? I message Riot because I've never had such a penalty before for such a honest mistake. 

Riot Support then tells me it's because my honest mistake cost my team LP,  that the ban is justified???? I was playing normal draft pick??? Support corrects themself AFTER I pointed out their mistake, by saying 'sorry I meant MMR, not LP, but the consequence is the same' , LIKE SERIOUSLY??? 

Am I crazy?? Mmr loss is THAT serious??? Casual draft pick is really that deep???? Especially because this is my first offense like this for anything, I'm so baffled. I've played both casual and competitive for Valorant and Overwatch, and I've never come across a steep penalty like this, especially over something so innocently dumb of me like me not noticing mobalytics changed my spells in a casual game.

Is Riot Support really this brutal, or did I get unlucky?
Wow that's super messed up...I would definitely appeal on social media or /r/leagueoflegends
usually when this happens u should not move from base.  
don't get me wrong I believe the ban is not fair i hope they left it but i saw this happen before and that's what people do usually but that's in ranked idk how stupid this game is to ban u over a casual game.....
I mean that's dumb...but also if I had a quarter for every time someone said their runes/summoner spells got messed up because of a 3rd party app....I'd be rich and wouldn't be on this sub Reddit. O well...
Upvoted for visibility.

No way this is a fair punishment. If that Rioter isn't just a bot account, he needs to be canned.
Get rid of mobalytics... It does nothing for you!
This is typical riot support isn't there to help it'd there so they can say they are helping when in reality a bot just hands out punishments while any appeal is rejected Ala "sorry you feel you were in the right but you weren't so"
Another commentor said this. DON'T LEAVE BASE. You made them wait 15 minutes instead of 1 or 2.
Riot's support team is half outsourced and half ai, both of them have pretty much no power to revoke the punishment unless it's very obvious not rightfully implemented.

Better to tackle directly to an riot employer at Twitter.

Yes it's very stupid to need to bother a pretty busy riot employers personal account for something they have no control over, but it is what it is.
I honestly wouldnt mind if they actually did this for EVERYONE that griefed, but so many ppl get away with soft griefing that its crazy, like maybe the game quality would go up for once if ppl were actually afraid of bans.

Also i doubt you got banned just for forgetting smite, you probably also ran it or something as just not taking smite wouldnt trigger the automated ban system if you had even an average score line (btw all bans are automated, theres nobody actually looking at stuff like this).
One of my best Kha’Zix games I’ve ever played I forgot to take smite during a clash game. I started Doran’s Blade instead and had to back multiple times during first clear. I ended up with 19 kills that game. Not having a jungle item sucks, but it shouldn’t be a bannable offense
14 day ban is never for a first offense bs
The best solution is to stop wasting time on the league.
I've been playing since season 2, and more and more the politics of the game are getting worse.
I got banned for the first time ever, for trolling, where I was scoring 5/13 for Singed in normal. I had to write a ticket to the support and they unban me calling it a mistake. After that I started following one real troll for the sake of experimentation, who was just ruining the game for others. I sent a report and ticket - 0 reaction from riot.
Even now, if I go to his op.gg last game 0/8 gragas with grasp in a ranked game and he doesn't get banned. In 20 games, his average KDA is less than 0.6 and yet he continues to play ( https://www.op.gg/summoners/ru/mequella )
Cross post this to a bigger sub for exposure. I know /r/LeagueOfLegends are hard asses about what is allowed but /r/LeagueOfMemes or /r/SummonerSchool are both like 5x larger than this sub and both will probably be receptive with the right phrasing
nice company
The fact that it’s a third party app that changed your summoner spells is not a valid reason for Riot I’m pretty sure.  The fact that you tried to play it out and make everyone in your team lose their time in an unwinnable game instead of having your team remake in this situation is bad imo.  14 days ban for this is a bit intense though so maybe there’s more to it.  You said you never got punished for anything like this but said you got warning before for afk/dc so that is probably it.
Well, it is the same as trolling/inting etc.if you can get banned for playing Nunu support with smite, then you cam get banned for this as well.

However, no chance in hell this is your first offense my guy. You dont get a two-weeker just like that.

Dont try us lol. Take the punishment and sit down.
This is bullshit

I swear league is the only game on the market where you will be unironically banned for having a bad game, let alone shit like this

Also if no smite is banworthy just auto lock smite for junglers. Hello??? Queue jungle = you have smite now.
Intentional or not my friend you fucked it up and lost the game.  
If you ever forget to take smite leave the game at start so your team can remake
;c got me so bad
That is unbelievably fucked up.  I don't know why he even brought up jg items because you literally cant buy jg items without smite.  That rioter is a fucking moron. Should be fired for  incompetence.  Why do they even allow you to play without smite if its a 14-day ban?  That's like allowing Garen to pick clarity and then banning him for it. 

"Your team mates didn't like you picked Ryze, so they FF.  Here's a 14 day ban for you.  Don't pick Ryze again."
Buddy, you using 3rd party app that alternates the game/client function. Riot never supported them and generally is against their existence as it gives too much info Riot doesn’t wants players to know.

Not sure what surprised about. Also support quite literally told there is nothing he can do because there are rules. He is just following procedure
U were honor 0 prior to this so you deserve this you terrorist
Sad cringe rioters fueled by a sad cringe community
Bro I typed midget once and got a one month ban
Deserved in my opinion.
That's brutal, their support is useless
Good and well deserved. Just imagine how match time you spend in the champion select. Then realise how much time you had to see and change them
The majority of people at riot that work in the ticket system are absolute ego maniacs, they're literally discord moderators on steroids.

Turbo inting mid TP / Ghost Disco Nunu on my team doesn't get banned but I do because I just alt f4 as soon as he started doing it and go make myself some food.

A while back our support accidentally takes first blood, total accident, our ADC? Draven. 
Who is the support duo with? Me, the jungler. 
What does draven do? Takes it out on me and greifs me all game. He spams the chat with offensive shit all game long, post game I say 'draven has small syndrome and wasn't showed enough affection as a child' and I get 14 days. He got absolutely nothing.

In case number 1 support ticket told me that we all get frustrated sometimes with team mates but leaving the game is not the answer, I should take my breaks to reset my mental after the game has finished. Omega fucking lul.

In case number 2 I was told that they would look into the draven but not remove my suspension and gave me some absolute wall of text on the things I can do in game if a team mate is negatively impacting my 'fun'.

My girlfriend got a two week ban for literally typing in chat 'dude it's 8am why are you so mad' when two people on her team were arguing and spamming racial slurs at each other. Basically got told to deal with it in a really sarcastic and creepy response from the riot employee handling the ticket, like the dude was borerline the 'omg you're a girl that games' copypasta.

Thing is, in high elo, you meet a lot of the same players again and again and again, sometimes you find them in a good mood and say 'remember this time or that time? Did you get a ban for that?' it's always 'no lmfao'.

These guys in control of the ticket system just enjoy the power and enjoy saying no, they let the power and dynamic of control come way before any sense of the word logic.

And while like in most games the major outlier is not in fact the game but more so the players that play it, riot play no part in making the game a better place either. They do nothing to reassure their playerbase, there's no justice or understanding its just a stupid fucked up system that becomes even more fucked up when neckbeards get given the power to say yes and no to people.
They change your summoner spells to smite for you. You can’t forget, only way you don’t have smite is if you chose not to take it.
At the end of the day, the game selects smite for you. You turned it off, cya in 2 weeks
>this situation has happened to me so I truely understand this ;P

As if your quirky response makes up for a 14 day ban. Fuck riot.
Regardless of if you deserved it or not the cheeky emotes like the little sad face and the tongue sticking out while explaining to you that you will not be able to play the game for the next 14 days is incredibly disrespectful and unprofessional, this employee should be looked into and evaluated for suspension or termination.
Bullshit
 These retards created a system where non toxic players get punished 😂😂😂 I love to see that they  give 14 day ban to someone who isnt even toxic😂
They made client changes specifically for this to never happen (you get smite as a default summoner spell when the game assigns you jg role). Lobbies are anonymous by default (you need a 3rd party app to disclose player’s names, rank, main role, etc).

If after all this you still play a jg game without smite, you either deliberately changed it on the lobby or have a 3rd party app that screwed you. Maybe pay more attention if role swapping with premades instead of autopiloting lobbies?

I’m all for bashing Riot and their endless chain of mistakes when it comes to balance and design changes/flaws, but on this occasion it’s on you. You might think the penalty is too harsh for a 1st/2nd offense. So it is for people that no longer have the time to play 8-10 hrs/day and can only get to play a few games a week because of work, tight schedule, studying or whatever reason, and end up in a match with a no smite, glorified minion jungler auto losing the match from min 1.

If this happens to you again, just disconnect and allow your team to remake, you won’t get banned for this but you still decided to roll the dice on other people’s time and played a doomed from lobby match. You just made it worse for yourself because you thought that being the majority in the lobby (group of 3), you might get away with it.
Pro players get months of pay taken away for not taking  smite so 14 days restriction seems fair
Worst part about all this. Tyler1 became a riot icon. Despite inting 1000 of games on purpose on stream. Man literaly had an int list and would troll and throw the game on purpose whenever he met someone from his “list” yet some how he became an icon… riot only cares about money and growth because the genre is dieing. I love this game and I’ve played it for 12 years. But sometimes I wish I never started. 12 years and 60 perma bans. I’m not even that toxic in other games or in life in general. This game brings out the worst in people. The community is dog shit and has been since they sold out to tencent and gave up actually caring about the game and players. It’s all a money making game now.
So people can run it down in masters legit nunu bottom picks in ranked or whatever i ve seen people literally type kys and not get penalized or get c etc but this gets 14 days? Wtf 💀
You also didn't buy items. I'm not buying that it was a mistake if you not only forgot smite, but \*also\* didn't buy a jungling item.
No no I think the dude emailing u is real just that the bans or flags are sent out by bots. The customer support is just there to tell you it's not their fault In my experience
Did you play talon?
let us updated this is really unfair
I tried playing morg jungle recently and the game auto swapped me to the recommended rune page, which didn't include smite as she is a supp mainly. Game was unplayable and we ff at 15 too, but not even my fault. This is way too extreme
I actually think a punishment is justified but this was a normal game, not a ranked so this is way too harsh.

If you ever notice that you forgot smite, please disconnect before 1:30 to allow your team to Remake. It's almost impossible to win without a smite on your team.
Riot is a large company now, so unfortunately the amount of regards they have to hire for support is at an all time high.
Well, you have plenty of time to double check tbh
Riot support have long been a joke.

Please update us OP on how you get on with this.
Reach out to customer support and link this post along with it- this is completely unfair and needs a review.
I would’ve bought support item and perma roamed, what champ were u playing?
Lol they suspend people like you but never get the real trolls. What a shame.
Bruh. Fuck Riot Games. They are too unjust. Banning a account just for a small mistake in gameplay. I don't know if League is the most rigged and unfair game i've ever played but i know League is one of the most rigged and unfair games.
People soft-inting 20 games in a row, with a combined score of 0/180/50: All good, don’t see anything wrong, sometimes ppl have a bad day.

Someone unintentionally not taking smite with them: 14 DAY BAN!!!
1. Get Blitz it’s far better 
2. The rules probably have no leeway to revoke the ban and they will never know if it’s an accident or not
I could understand you getting banned if you do it 10 times in a row, but a 14-day suspension for a one time mistake is insane, there is no way this Rioter gets away with this.
I hope the riot support person got banned for 14 days for doing the exact same thing... But for some reason, I get a feeling they didn't....
Madness, I see so much inting and toxicity in ranked and I barely ever get report feedback to say these awful players who ruin ranked intentionally are being punished, for some really bad ones I even keep an eye on their match history and still, no ban or suspension. 

But sure riot, ban people for forgetting smite in draft one time for 14 days, that really shows you take game disruption seriously huh.
Meanwhile some fucker who goes Twitch support and intentionally runs down mid minute one gets a 10 day ban only to int again as soon as he's unbanned
At least its not permament
Never playing league again (:
Great time to play another game
;P
While it's hard to forget smite since it changes it when you get jungler, you shouldn't be punished for that.
In general you shouldn't be punished for something unintentional, or else we're gonna start banning people for losing lane
Reports are always skewed because they are mostly from tilted players. I had a Veigo top (jung player obviously) leave lane 5 mins in and wander around aimlessly with no intention to win. I looked at botlane and saw Anivia was already 2-0 so I thought this Anivia will get even more fed and I will have a win condition as a jung. Well Anivia did indeed get fed with 12-0 score and we had a really good shot of winning. Eventually their splitting Urgot broke our base down with no top to match him and there was 2 4v5 fights we lost. Still I didn't bother reporting because whether Veigo trolled or not there are always fed enemies to deal with and their Urgot just carried more than our Anivia.
Insane, I've forgotten smite a few times and never been banned
Funny, they banned u for 14 days but did nothing to Ksante who was 0/3 after lane and was following me for the rest of the game :)
Sounds like the junglers are getting gaslit considering they could code it in as a required spell for the role like the mobile game did… oh wait Riot knows better
They should force you to take smite as a jungler and buy jungle  item then
Sad how you’re penalized and I sincerely doubt Riot will revoke it…they only take back penalties given to League influencers!

I was bombarded with sexist slurs in an aram and defended myself. (Didn’t even say anything bad if I recall correctly. I have the logs saved somewhere and nothing I said was offensive)…But I lost honor lvl 5 for spam while the sexist person got no penalty. 😜😜
With the game autosetting smite when placed jungle, it was obvious that they would penilize non-smite jungle more often as the ability has to be deselected manually.

Sucks, and they should remove the temporary punishment from your account, yet its not confusing why they did it.
My jungler doesn't have smite, ADC forgot to turn off his minimap cover after streaming, toplaner on a (Epstein) island and doesn't talk to anyone, our midlander has forgotten the scent of fresh air and the feeling of grass, now only speaks in zed quotes... Support warding the baron and trying to create a "collapse opportunity" he heard from an announcer during a T1 game, this is league 2023.
But when my jungle ints all 3 lanes and goes 0/10 in 10 minutes they don't get banned, yeah, fair riot. If they feel it wqs unfair to the other players they could have given them their lp back. Now, I would be mad too if my jg didn't pick up smite, but everyone can make mistakes, especially since their auto runes sometimes fuck up your sums(yeah thanks riot again)
Edit: I would just continue sending tickets until you get someone from their support team that actually has a brain and is capable of basic human comunication. Riot supp teams looks just luke my ranked lobbies rn xD
If you forget smite. Afk.
I'm confused, doesn't the client automatically pick smite for you?
Probably best to just take it on the chin. If they find out you’re using 3rd party apps then your account is toast. This is the lesser of two evils
Ah so they punish it when it's a genuine mistake but don't punish the level 30 smurfs who run smite tp Syndra support and run around trolling their jungle by throwing and stealing their camps all game for 50 games straight. MAKES SENSE RIOT.
This is kind of insane because people grief all the time by stealing jungle camps or CS from other lanes when they’re having fun, and I’ve never seen or heard anything about that happening to them.
They use faces in their messages? Idk that's so funny to me like imagining them "you have been banned for 14 days! ;P" like bro wth xD 
Btw I'd ban you for 1min in queue ('cause they still lost mmr without the ability to win the game, even tho it was unintentional), 14 days is fking rough
wait what so now riot fucking cares out of nowhere what a shit company  jesus christ 😂 9-10 games goes unpunished then once in a while for the smallest offences boom 14 days or just perma
I received a 14 day ban for taking smite as a support in a normal game. The games support system is trash and they ban everything that doesn't follow a meta.
their whole ban system is a complete joke
It could be much worse. My 10yo account has been permabanned at the beginning of 2021. Support refused to provide me reason, and declined right to appeal. Didn't flame, didn't troll, didn't AFK. It has been 2.5y, and I still have no idea what got me banned.
People trolling games getting banned for trolling games is not so bad of a thing imo
Impossible to forget smite. It gets auto filled as smite when you go for a jungle line. Might be troll
I am so glad to know people get punished for trolling. 

You were the jungler, you didn't take smite. You ruined the game for your team mates. You got banned. You used third party apps and you got banned. This is amazing news. 

Excellent. I wish the troll system would work this well all the time. :)
This sounds like Riot Fovk. She/He's fucking delusional and I honestly wish suffering upon the person.
Nothing like the good ol "I totally only did this once and I've NEVER been toxic enough to get reported/chatmute/suspended before" reaction post. 10/10
Honestly, respond to it clarifying the situation more. Because this is more than likely a preplanned response. You can also rate the encounter poorly for not understanding the situation.
i would also report and hope you get banned probably id wish you death or something
Riots ban systems are almost as dumb as the responses you get from these clowns.
Yep. Riot is smoking crack this year with their bans. I got a ban for telling the guy who was flaming me the entire game to “suck my balls” its a completely joke nowadays
I forgot smite once and actually won (my teammates stalled until late game)
3rd party apps arent permitted anyways. Your fault you used it and now you're facing the consequences of it bugging out. Sucks to suck
Your fault for playing this game
Nah bro I appealed for the exact same thing and got my suspension cancelled.
Games trash lol
Unfortunately can't talk about bans on that sub, I might try to check out Twitter (sorry, X, lol) community and find similar situations there- 
I'd be exposing myself to my friends who don't game and follow me as someone desperate to get back on league LOL 
, but idc I'm really just bitter than I bought my first battle pass and saved tokens, and I won't be able to spend them since my ban passes the end of the pass
Ironically, I didn't want to get penalized so I chose not to afk and convince the rest of my team to surrender.. If only I had the foresight to know my adc would be tilt tweaking...
There's also an option on the app that you turn off to avoid said situations.
The problem is this should be penalised, but Riot has no tier below this for "inting" in lack of a better word. And if OP forgets again its a perm, which is wild.
I can't believe this player receives such a harsh punishment while so many others actively grief while getting away with it.
I agree that it's unfair. When sending them my initial ticket paragraph, I didn't think to mention it was a normal draft pick because I don't know what info Riot Support has access to when viewing my ticket.  I'm hoping it's a bot because what person who knows comp vs casual would think mmr loss on one casual game is a grievous as lp loss?! I've sent evidence that hopefully even a bot would see as irrefutable that I wasn't violating any guidelines lol
My understanding of runes and how items work together with specific champs is super garbo! Moba tells me what to use/run and I'm like Okay! Plus I like the jungle timers, I'm a simple brain. After this this though, I'm ready to turn off any auto applications for spells/runes, I'll suck it up and look it up lol.

If not mobalytics, have any suggestions for third party apps/sites that suggest runes/items?
+1 does nothing and puts you in bad position
League has built in items and runes suggestions. No reason, It does gives some interesting stats if I recall right but I had issues with it crashing my load screen so I got ride of it (many years ago).
If they're bots I'm really considering sending another ticket and rephrasing my situation to something more concrete - meaning I don't see how I violated any guidelines. I did try to jungle and play the game, hence my deaths, but at some point I didn't want to feed them anymore. Tough though because I didn't have big brain 4sight to take screenshots of anything, plus I would think they could see my previous submitted tickets? And I don't think it'd look good to see me try to appeal again-
This. Take my fucking upvote.
So far i only had very good experiences with Riot Support
Is there a written rule that says he needs to do that? No

Is there a written rule that says that he needs to take smite as a jungler or else he gets banned ? No

Even more if he is kinda new to the game as he said and he is probably playing in low low elo
Just afk next time this happens to you please. Don't waste other people's time.
I can fully believe that the support I talked to is either one of those because I had to clarify with them that draft pick is unranked and costs no LP, and they were like 'oops, typo! I meant mmr'
And that's what's making me question my sanity, but my fault for thinking I was talking to a human that knows about the game
The game would die in 2 months lmao

And no , in the answer there is no allusion that he inted, i dont know why you make things up
I agree that threat of ban should make people think twice about what they type in chat or how quick they are to throw just because they don't like their teammate.

But can you explain what you mean by 'also ran it or something' I dont know what this means.

I understand I was not automatically banned by the game for not having smite, but rather my single teammate was really pressed for my dumb oopsie and reported me for it, and it warranted 14 day ban when I've never gotten any kind of warnings for something like this before. I'm pressed that 1 report got such a heavy penalty and I'm pressed by support's nonsensical reason for saying 'yeah that's justified'
Hope to always have smite in the future lol but this is the first time I've heard of an emergency item alternative, thanks for sharing
I've only ever gotten like 2-3 afk warnings since 2020
I got into league really late which I wasn't expecting bc I've never been a MOBA person, but if a game's got characters I like, good art, animation, lore (I'm realizing it's history is not as perfect as I thought lol but still diggin it) then I'll fixate for a while. The game definitely has living up to its reputation unfortunately, but not enough to crush me out the gate. I guess I'll have to let my soul be squeezed out slowly until I'm over it (this situation is helping that)
I'll have to see what they allow/don't allow, thank you for the suggestion

I don't know what exposure would do for me though tbr, I mainly just wanted to see if this was a common thing people report their jungles for in unr, and I'm  a newbie for not knowing , or my jhin was having a bad day to care So Much about a lost unranked game that just started.
There is no rule agaisnt picking nunu sup with smite, if the guys doesnt troll on purpose he is free to play what he wants.

Should i remember you the  janna top with smite meta? Should have they banned every single player that abused that strategy? 
Lmao at that point just close , invest in the mmo or whathever , the game is dying and they are speeding up the process with every single patch
Here comes a life long Riot employee.
Not without any previous warnings to my account lol that's crazy
Also it’s cringe and pretty unprofessional for their support to use “:c and :p” like wtf? Are we 12?
I did change my spell to smite, just didn't see mobalytics made the change AFTER i made my own switch to smite. I don't always stare at select after I make my own pick, I come back when game starts. Definitely retiring mobalytics, changing my own picks.
U deserve to be hardstuck silver lmao
This was super depressing to read lol I'm sorry that sucks mega balls. Valorant sucks too but I've realized it's like baby pen play compared to the monster pit that is League...

This other guy suggested I try to expose on other subs to reach other Riot employees, and I initially wasn't going to, but I'm realizing how disillusioned I probably am to try to get a human response from my current support ticket helper...

I thought I was doing pretty good avoiding interaction with sour players until this one got the iron fist brought down on me.
Yeah they are disgusting, they should all be fired asap but we know riot doesn't care as long as they make money out of skins
It thought I was still mid because that's what I originally queued for, I last second jungle in champ select. So it gave me mid runes/spells
YES, HONESTLY?? 

THANK YOU, I didn't know if it was because I'm bitter, but the emotes they used throughout their responses triggered me in some type of way LOL

They "understand" this, but don't understand how wack it is to tell me loss of mmr in an unranked is the same crime as loss of lp in ranked? And that justifies 14 days?

Guess I had to find out the hard way what everyone else already knew, RIP
you cant buy a jungle item if you don't have smite
I'm not 100% confident in knowing how everything works, but at least for me, I literally could not buy any of the jungler item(s). All the eggs were locked and I could not buy. I forgot smite once before when I first tried playing jungle in 2020, and couldn't buy them too, so I'm still under the impression that you cannot buy jungle item if you don't have smite. Is that not right??

Even if that's not right, I couldn't buy jungle item and idk why
I understand it's not their fault for getting me banned, but I am grilling them for not lifting the ban after I reached out because their listed reason for keeping the ban is because I cost my team LP ... in normal draft ..
never played him, i played shyvana for jungle
r/leagueofmemes
>I'm really just bitter than I bought my first battle pass and saved tokens, and I won't be able to spend them since my ban passes the end of the pass

I would suggest making a ticket specifically about this issue.
Just sit in base/quit the game as you load in and let your team remake.

Everyone gets out of the game in 3 mins instead of 15 and the only "penalty" you get is single 1 min wait timer for your next queue a single time.

Next time do that, its the fairest solution, it is usually what ppl do when they forget smite.
I have no idea why you got so much downvotes. This sub really is full of waste.
Why are people downvoting this
Why are people downvoting this
Option to not automatically update runes/spells? True that it would help avoid this happening again, but it's been a really nice quality of life feature for me until now. Might have to try the manual route for a while after this though :(
I would agree this should be penalized if they actually penalized real grinding, but they don't. 

Right now we are seeing more unfair punishments than ever before. People are receiving warnings for using chat LITERALLY AS INTENDED. 

This at the very worst should start out as a warning. If this is a 14 day ban, all the griefers I see should be getting perma bans after their single bad games.
Like I get the "for lack of a better word", but the report could be for "INTENTIONALLY feeding".  Now I understand the actual ban would probably be automated, but this has got to be something that is common enough that if you appeal they can say "well... that is an honest mistake / first time offender / etc" and then give some leeway.
The problem is that it wasn't like this a year ago, they are litterally killing their own game
Runes are actually pretty simple if you put a little time in. I used to have all the 3rd party apps and use the jungle timers, compare my team to theirs etc. it's all waffle.

I made my champ pool smaller, read up on the runes for them (watching YouTube videos helped as well) and now know them in and out.

Jungle timers are in built because riot saw that it was an unfair advantage and gave everyone access to it.

You aren't a simple brain, don't put yourself down. You just enjoy playing the game and this is a section that doesn't interest you as much as the actual gameplay and so you spend less time on it. There are no gimmicks or tricks to league, just fundamentals and understanding
no third party apps are useful, even mobalytics jungle timers are wrong if u didn't killed the camp.

They are actually harmful cuz all of its suggestions are the most popular ones, which of leads to unoptimal.

If u want to be an okey-ish player, learn to choose ur runes yourself.
Riot has suggested rune pages and summoner spells right in the UI now, you never have to guess
Actual camp timers are great, instead of Riot's indicator. They can be extra beneficial if you invade the enemy jg.
If they actually are bots, it's a bit scummy to have them pretend to be real people and deceive you with "I had the same thing happen to me". As you said, you might phrase the ticket differently if you know you are having a conversation with a real person.
9/10 replies from riot support is bots or people who just copy paste prewritten replies. 

I'd write out messages that would take me 1 to 2 hours to get a reply from them that was just a copy paste of the rules etc etc. 

I had to reopen tickets and go back and fourth with them forever until I finally got a human to answer me. I had to beg for a human reply and finally got them to answer my typed out numbered questions to get specifics, and after all that effort it still didn't change the outcome. so learn from that as you will
AND he said he was swapping roles with someone in an UNRANKED game.  This is just fucked up all over, no need to blame him.
You dont get 14 day banned by selecting a summoner spell or not.

It literally doesnt work like that, he HAD to had done something else to trigger the automatic system, like i said the entire report/ban system is FULLY automated, theres NOBODY checking logs and manually reviewing things, he had to like either sprint it/die too much on top of it or literally like run to enemy nexus/side of the map and dance, sell all their items and stuff like that (and often enough the system doesnt even catch when ppl literally run down mid).
Both Blade and Shield can be substituted in. Shield will give you healthier clears since its passive works on jungle camps but Blade is obviously better for ganking and you’ll have to do a lot of ganking and fights around objectives. You don’t get much xp from jungle camps without a jungle item so farm champs
Also wanted to see how common 14 day ban is on first offense for community. Do like 3 afk warnings in the time span of a year count toward 'warnings' for a ban like this?
A good number of rioters def lurk on the main subreddit I wouldn’t be surprised if they are on the other subs too. If u get the attention of one rhey might help you who knows 🤷‍♂️

Also how much u want to pursue is really based on how much u care about not playing on that account for the next two weeks. Obviously doesn’t make sense to put more effort into this if ur not really invested
And then we get to what trolling is. Riot has shown that picking Nunu support with smite, basically never laning and mostly just stealing enemy jungle camps together with your own jungler while leaving your AD alone bot is trolling, and punishable if someone reports you.

I dont agree, but it is what it is. So jungling without smite is obviously trolling, and punishable. Although, as I said. You dont get a two week ban directly from doing that once lol.

What OP aint telling us is the previous stuff he has done. So put down the pitchfork please
Yeah that’s the biggest thing. People get away with saying despicable shit and straight inting but continue to play, you forget smite and get a 14 day immediately. This should have been at max a day ban, or just a warning. 14 is insane. I’ve forgotten smite a couple of times and played it out, won a couple lost more, never received a ban.
You did have previous warnings over afk and dc, and who knows if you got more skeletons there, and you didn't post the whole conversation so I really doubt it was normal and not a ranked game. Suck it up and wait the 2 weeks.
Well, if their forty-year-old player base acts like children, handling them with kids gloves seems appropriate.
The only thing I deserve is your sweet mother 🌹
So many people, especially other roles will say 'just take the high ground' time after time but like honestly.. sometimes you just don't want to.

Everyone has a breaking point, and without sounding dramatic, playing jungle is the most mentally taxing role in the game if not gaming alone in general.. you got 4 people trying kill you, 1 person trying to humiliate you and 4 people on your team just waiting for you to fuck up, waiting to use you as the scapegoat or just straight up knowing that whatever happens they can blame you and chances are everyone will go 'yeah +1'. So to get that every single game and see no instant feedback reports is backwards enough as it is but then for the one time you bite back you get 14 days or something without question and without reason and the people who have the power to listen and understand the situation just basically say 'sucks for you but I'm not gonna do anything here' just makes you think, whats the point..

It's partly the reason I quit.

I played since season 2, I loved the tribunal system, i spent a long time using it and was always fair in which way I decided, tried to look at both sides of the coin and take whatever people added into consideration and I can safely say without doubt that every single decision I made on that could be perfectly understood to whoever was on either end of the outcome, riot removed that for their new season and I get it, people did exploit the tribunal system for rewards but the people who actually used it correctly probably made league a better place for it, I'm not asking for it back, league is too toxic for a system like that now but this new system is most certainly not making league a better place when people are leaving the game every single day because of toxicity, to protect their mental, because the game is emotionally and mentally taxing, because the direction doesn't make sense anymore and finally because like in most game these days the players wallet is valued more than the player.

I hope you can get a resolution to your issue, I wouldn't personally bank on it but even coming from someone like me, I played from season 2, a lot of the things in my life I hold dearest I found from that game, I met my girlfriend on league, the woman I'll marry and have children with, most of my friends are from league, i owe a lot to it, but the fact I had to leave it and the reasons I left it for is actually quite sad.

Especially when it really looks like it's not something that will be changing anytime soon and at least once or twice a week I come across posts on Reddit that show it's getting progressively worse.
Thanks for adding this, I wasn't positive that this was the case until now
Yeah they are the least helpful people in the world. I was being verbally assaulted one game so I defended myself and their reason for only punishing me was "well im sorry u feel that way but u said mean things so"
I only ask because it happened in one of my games. And it was their first ever jungle game. Felt terrible for them.
Riot doesn't give a fuck. If you get banned they don't refund your RP.
I mean the one afking in base loses full LP but that’s expected already, better for 1 to lose LP than everyone else also losing
Its true that this is a more fair solution from your teams POV, but still nothing OP did is deserving of a ban, Im genuinely surprised an actual human checked it and still considered the punishment justified

If it isnt hard enough for Riot to notice you, the very single time they do you get this kind of individual as your very last chance for justice, its honestly terrifying. I don't want to play knowing my account can be doomed at the first random mistake bc you are completely alone in front of the system
Thank you sm, I didn't know this. Definitely useful for emergencies like this.

Would you happen to know if  afk warnings lead to penalties like this one? Or further penalty like permaban? I think gotten like 2 or 3 in the past 6 months, idk if they stack indefinitely or like softly reset the warnings if it's been a while, if that makes sense? Because other than those, I haven't received any other kind of warnings about suspension or being reported. Idk the warning possibilities, lol
"reddit"
Take some time to actually learn runes, item builds, and when you should change up summoner spells(aside from smite ofc) and you'll get better at the game. Those apps handicap you in the long run imo.
The game has built in rune pages now, that usually match whatever is in those 3rd party apps. You can just use those and double check with whatever site if you're worried. For real though, you should get to a point where you know the gist of what runes you take when for your main champs.
Is this even the first time your forgot smite xd?
I assume we don't have the full story here. If OP just tried to jungle without a jungle item and finished like 0-3, I doubt this happened. If they went into someone else's lane or went like 0-11, I'm not surprised it's triggered something. 

Another funny thing to point out is that he could've probably just left the game immediately and at worst got a 30 minute leaverbuster.
Yeah it's pretty common and majority the time it's a troll.
BUILT IN JUNGLE TIMERS! I can't believe I didn't notice... 

When I first started playing for like 2 months in 2020 I physically wrote down the runes for the 3 champs I played lol, but I should dedicate to have a few memorized for sure. It's tougher now to pick who to focus on though because I fill like 90% of the time now when I play unranked since I have unlocked a lot more champs I want to try and can't decide haha

I think it's cool when Youtubers have the extensive knowledge of how runes/items work, so if the character gets nerfed/buffed, they just automatically know what would work best with the champ tweaks. It'd be cool to have that knowledge someday. Guess I know how to consume league for the next 2 weeks without playing :')

Time to get rid of the mobalytics crutch then, thanks for the encouragement!
Eh some people just want to play and not worry about rune pages and junk
i prefer facecheck for that stuff, it's much smoother experience for me
Even if they are humans they dont play their game , thats for sure, they get paid to deny your appeals without even checking the games
That makes it even worse of what i tought...
Riot deserves blizzard treatment at this point
It litterally works like that, we are not in season 12 anymore buddy, one person reportint you is enough for the automatic system to ban you if  there is a single possibility that he is inting, in this case the missing summoner spell.

If there was another reason for the ban they would have written it in the response, trust me , the patters in their replies are always the same
Honestly don’t have the answer for u, not super familiar with Riots system as of recent. But 14 days for a first offense is pretty ridiculous, as frustrating that game may have been for ur team
my first offence was also a 14-day ban but mine was much bigger ig (i told someone to keep themself safe) usually its not a common thing to get banned 2-weeks but it happens once in a while. the worst thing is that the bans are not unified. literally just this year someone told me the same thing i did last year but the censored one letter and went out unpunished. its pretty frustrating to face things like that when youre trying to not be toxic
as for your second question, i suppose no. i think (not sure tho like 70%) that each ban with different reason has different system. like you can get banned 14d for toxicity and your next would be perma, but you can get banned 14d again but this time for grieving (definitely not from experience)
It isn't common ngl I've had bad days where I've literally called someone a useless waste if space that should 86 themself then ran down mid with no punishment going like 10/42. 

Then again I said the words furry midget squirrel in a pre-made 5 stack of friends and been banned by the bot. Point is riots automated system is shit.
I feel cringe for being so invested actually, lol, because I've never received a ban on any game I've played aside from short afk timers. I'm a little embarrassed to be going off like this as I've never before. Also, I fixate on one 'big' game at a time and don't want to play anything else in that months+ long duration, so I feel frustrated since I just started trying more champs aside from my starter few. I'm not good (spoilers :P) but I feel like I'm getting better so I want to keep playing.

NOT TO MENTION! This bp for the esports event is the first one I've purchased and I was grinding/saving tokens but the event will be over before my ban ends so I'm bothered that I feel like my already dedicated time/money is being wasted.
Related to branching to other subreddits though, would it be a good idea to link this post for more context ? Or would it qualify my post for possibly violating their rules?
Then let's ban every Bard player cause he leaves his lane, or every single jungler player that doesn't gank  and let's also ban every player that build unoptimal items, an echanter that builds ap? he is trolling the game ban him, leathality sion ? He is trolling ban him.
 Wait did the adc pick cleanse even if the enemy doesnt have a single hard cc? Baaaan

Nah that's fkd up

And i dont care what op did before this, he could have done the worst imaginable shit and still not deserve a single day ban for forgetting a smite.
😂😂😭 

Didn't even try to denying being hardstuck silver
This is quite literally the perfect place to go off about how tough the jungle role is LOL When I first started playing, after the free ones, I got whatever champs I thought looked cool...So I got the pain of being a newbie and a jungler at the same time :') I think if League was my first online team game it would have been a lot more crushing to me as a new player, but I think I was decently prepared to handle the lashing since I was a tank main in Overwatch and controller main in Valorant - the roles no one wants to play but love to scapegoat in team play :') I thought there would be no inital shotcaller role in League, but I really think it's jungle because everyone just focuses on their lane for the first part of the game Except you - there's so much weight on the jungle role to not only farm but pay attention to everyone else's laning phases, very much the mom driver of the van making sure everyone's okay.

&#x200B;

100% of my friends who play/played League and found out I started playing just gave me advice: 'Don't'. Hearing that as a new and interested player is so crushing to hear, but I'm not gonna contest reality and experience. Overwatch is a tragic story now, but I'm grateful to have experienced the "blissful" period before it got bad, then worse, then down from there... It sucked to have my love for Overwatch become more and more disillusioned over the years because of my resentment of Blizzard, and I feel like that is only a smaller scale example of what so many people, like you, have experienced with League. 

&#x200B;

I had to look up the tribunal system lol but yeah that's crazy- to think a system like that ever existed and, though not perfect because trolls are an ancient race, had some optimistic potential. It truly sucks that it becomes harder and harder to have something nice and just let it stay that way because, yes, wallets are what matters and the only people who don't get crushed by toxicity are the ones dishing it out..

My perspective on the support system and system overall has changed and broadened so much just because I made this post, it's crazy. I really thought I had a chance with my support ticket lol.. I really understand now that new players sign up for League, despite the huge notoriety, with the binding contract of "fuck around enough and find out".
Didn't want to tack it on with the bummed reply, but it's really nice to hear about your future-wife-to-be! Riot really peaked with that matchmaking :P

League is such a bittersweet game, heavy on the bitter
SUSPENDED ON FIRST GAME IS CRAZY- what's crazier though is the game punishing the player (on top of the community already doing that) for being A New Player
Why should he care about others losing lps?
Next game you get the same guys and they go 0/10 solo losing the game.

 And besides they could have won anyway if every lane was hard winning
Those "Human"  dont give a damn about the players and their account , they get paid even if they deny the unban request and they get to work less that way.

Actually disgusting for a game this big to have such a disgusting support team.

They should be all fired asap
i told someone don't be a proud drug user once and got downvoted lmao.
Riot also built in jungle clear routes numbered 1 to 6 that change with whatever champion you lock in to play. It changes every now and then because it's based on info gathered over time and that is affected by meta and patches but jungling is a lot more beginner friendly as a standard now.

Check out a YouTube/podcast duo called Broken By Concept. They are challenger level players who were on an OCE pro team called Dire Wolves (showing my age now) who became mid lane and jungle coaches. Nathan Mott is the jungle coach and his program is called Saltu.

They see league as a learning experience that can affect everyday life and my league of legends journey has never been this fun or entertaining and I've been playing since beta.

Glad I can help and encourage other people the same way others have done the same to me
As I said, this part just doesn't interest people and so this is why 3rd party apps are popular. But putting 5 minutes a day aside for learning this stuff over a couple of weeks avoids the chances of this exact situation where the app screwed you over and now you can't play the game
That's definitely my duo lol More than me

I introduced him to league and everything is very Not intuitive for him since he's only ever played fps games (that I also made him starting playing to duo w/ me lol), so mobalytics definitely helped him when starting, and would still help if he had to play someone other than his mains.

Though I think he could get rid of it ngl since he only plays Kayn/Nocturne and watches the youtube videos so he def knows whatever Kayn meta is goin on by heart. I do think mobalytics helps for trying a new champ on the spot tho, the game doesn't give u a lot of time to sort it all out before game starts if you're not ready to play someone new.
And now you can’t play at all…
Its not cringe at all that ur frustrated. The length of the punishment is very unjustified and next week is a holiday if ur in the US too. I get what ur saying about fixating on games. Im the same way. If you can’t manage to get a fix from Riot it might be time to start up an alternate account :/
It's not cringe at all. I am also not playing that often nowadays but I would pursue this out of a sense of justice. I get off on shitty employees getting their comeuppance.
So I think LeagueOfMemes might be more receptive because they hate both the main subreddit and Riot games as a whole. You kind just gotta frame it to make it seem funny but I have def seen unjust ban posts on there before https://www.reddit.com/r/LeagueOfMemes/comments/14ur3nd/okay_fuck_off_man_wtf_is_this_ban_lmao/

SummonerSchool might be tougher but if mention your new and looking for advice on how to approach the situation or prevent it from happening again you might find mods are sympathetic to you and leave it up

Realistically worst case is that ur post gets taken down which really isn’t that bad. Hope it works out for u
Not picking smite is trolling.
I don't need to prove nothing to you, you can think I am bronze or iron for all I care
Yeah, it's a bad system.
Lanes can’t hard win if they get ganked by a normal xp jungler. The game is 4v5 from the start and it basically becomes 4v6 because the useless jg without  smite is just free gold to feed on, like he’ll be lvl 3 when enemy too laner is lv 7
The people who have a hard on against these 3rd party apps are just wrong. They are blatantly helpful, especially as a jungler. 

Not everyone tilts because they see a rank higher than themselves on the enemy team. Maybe you do, but a lot of people don't. So stop acting like it's only a negative.

It is helpful to understand runes so you can situationally pick second wind/bone plating as a top laner or something, but jungle timers down to the second, identifying who is consistent and who isn't, and being able to guess some players recent mental state is very helpful. If I can tilt the dude on a 3 loss streak more, I'm gonna. That's gonna win games.
It gives you 3 suggested rune pages  in champ select for your champion.... with summoner spells.
Yeah I'm in US, R.I.P. Unfortunately I'm thinking to just make myself scarce if I can't get help because I really don't want an alternate account. On top of getting new champs to play, I've been dishing a little money here and there for my first battlepass (Worlds? the esports one rn) and first skins for a few champs I like that were on sale. The principal of abandoning my own money so soon.. orz I'm not ready lol
Thank you, this is my first post I've ever made since I usually just read, so this helps a lot!
He was playing in unranked elo lil bro 💀
Sure thing little buddy 👍
I know exactly what it does... Doesn't mean it's good
Oh yeah definitely don’t abandon ur account I was just saying maybe leveling another account in your 14 days off might not he the worst thing, then just go back to ur main right after
But that's not what the thread evolved into, he's responding to a guy that said "why should we care about other's LP".



And it's not even about caring, it's that forgetting smite is always going to be a guaranteed loss after a certain skill level, losing all the ressources of jungle and having no way of securing neutral objectives heavily stacks the odds against you. 

Better take a fast loss in 3min and go try to win your next game.
You're right, wouldn't hurt to just knock out the level up restrictions for game modes. You know, just in case riot kicks me down again, or if I become mega   
 top 500 challenger and need a break B') (very much sarcasm, i am bound stay silver forever even though I just did placements last week)
? He litterally talks about the chance of winning, and in an unranked match no smite makes absolutely 0 difference so what are u on?
  It's litterally what his comment evolved the thread into...


There are no reason someone should feel the need to dodge or remake a game until like silver/gold  elo
You’re delusional if you think i’m gonna troll a game and wait 15min to ff, if it’s someone else idc sure we can play it out if they want to
Met Mark at the Georgia rest stop
“I don’t know if anyone has said this, but you look a lot like Markiplier”

“I get that all the time”
Hello! Thanks for posting. This is a reminder about the rules. Make sure the post is appropriate and not to delegate or go against Reddit policy or r/Markiplier Rules. If this does break rules, please report it immediately. Posts that encourage raids on other subs or platforms is a bannable offense.

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/Markiplier) if you have any questions or concerns.*
Who let him out of the tub!?!
Dafuq is he in Georgia for? Lol
Nice shirt 👍
I'm just glad Mark looks like he's taking care of himself, with all the filming and worrying.
The best shirt for a pic like this lmfao
You met markiplier. The markiplier AND arguably more important witnessed Chica in real life. While wearing a dilf party shirt?
I would’ve been like, “I could’ve swore i left you in the tub.”
Same pose
This makes him seem like a really wholesome guy
Who let him out of the tub? 🤣🤣🤣

In all seriousness that is awesome and I hope I have that opportunity one day because it is my dream to meet him and thank him for being my comfort for so many years

I bet he was lovely, he seems so sweet
You kinda look like a bigger, darker-haired Ethan
Cool that you met him, but I wouldn't say that you really look like him
So cool Mark got to meet Tom Holland.
My DREAM
HES IN GEORGIA RN??
Two short kings with their hands in their pockets because they're not gay.
I see he escaped the bathtub
Father and son over here 🤣
Damm im jealous, and how was he? Was he as you thought he was
Never meet your heroes, unless its Mark ❤
Met Georgia at the Mark rest stop
i thought that was Timothée Chalamet for a sec
You should have done a backflip. He would've been super impressed.
I live in Alabama right on the Georgia line, can you help a brother out and send him my way /j
Is no one going to mention that they're standing outside the women's washroom?
Omg dope!
Nice try that's clearly Bobby Lee
How does it feel to live my dream?
Honestly seeing Mark and glancing at Chica and then saying "oh my gosh is that the celebrity good pup Chica?" While ignoring Mark's status would've probably made his whole day hahaha
Came across this in /r/all and I have no idea which one of you is supposed to be the one I should recognize.
Dilf party. Heh nice.
Wait — where in Georgia???
That’s so cool! I’d feel so bad asking for a picture cause I don’t want him getting swarmed but at the same time I’d love to meet him 😭
You are so lucky
Damn that’s really cool!
Should have asked him to do the Unus Annus handshake
How are Chicas legs???
I own that same CLOAK shirt
How lucky!! Did you ask when will he be done with his movie?(CAN'T WAIT)
You look like Ethan
ur shirt is so real
whoa don't look now but that guy looks like Markiplier 😮
He’s in Georgia?!?! Where??
Where in Georgia😱 is Markiplier breathing in my air supply?   
I thought this was Mark and Ethan for a minute 😂
NURSE!!!! HES OUT AGAIN GET THE NEWSPAPER!!
You look like you could be his son
THE Georgia rest stop? Like, there's only one in the state?
As a redditor who has no idea what this sub is, but saw the post on the front page, my initial thought was "Oh, Bobby Lee and Timothy Chalmette took a pic together, and they look kind of weird"
He’s out of the bathtub!
Timothée Chalamet ?
Two majestic looking men being bros. Always a lovely sight to see!
Nah straigth up lying he isn’t market pliar
THE RICK PANTS
You look like Tom Holland practicing his Timothee Chalamet disguise.
Xqc x tom holland
Dude, you look like a normal XqC, what the heck 😭
I wish I could meet Mark at some point
I can kindaaa see the resemblance lol, BUT THATS SO COOL OMG
What was he plying?
Actually jealous...
Perfect shirt for that photo lmao
Sick
Why is Midi Controller meeting men at truckstop? Was there a glory hole? Was the glory for him? Was it good, OP?
BRUH I LIVE IN GEORGIA!!
Well now we know where Mark is
This is so cute
IRRAAA hi mark
[deleted]
Not to sound like a conspiracy theorist buuuut didn't fnaf film near Georgia?
Omg you look like you could be Mark and Ethan’s love child
Bro the shirt was perfect for that moment 😂
Haha cool
I couldn't resist asking for a hug lol
Congratulations on meeting him. I’m hoping that will be me one day. Maybe he’s on his way home, and he was passing through?
Who is this guy and why is he in my feed multiple days in a row now?  I have never heard of him
AHHHHH IM SO JEALOUS
You so lucky
OMGGGG. I’m acting like I could have seen him just bc I live in GA as if it’s not a big area
You guys are the same height, how tall are you.
Imagine just chilling and Markiplier passes by you, I’d be so confused and excited 😂
he is doing a lot of driving.
Markiplier is what Bobby Lee thinks he looks like.
OMG YOUR SO LUCKY!! I WAS JUST IN GEORGIA YESTERDAY 😭
If I may ask,WHERE in Georgia??
Hahaha, a friend and I saw him at a rest stop in MA or RI once a while ago. My friend wasn't sure it was him, and I wasn't really a fan who knew much.

We checked later and he was in the state for whatever reason that day lol.
Arnt you supposed to be starting a holy war at the moment?
You lucky son of a Human!!!!!
Ah yes, Thomas Chalamet. My favorite actor.
One time he showed up in my neighborhood. Don’t know why. It’s still a big question me and my friends have
Aww man I'm in Georgia rn!! Is he still there?
Are you 5'9"?
oh my god i am completely normal about this
WAIT WHAT
"the Georgia rest stop"

since there's only one in the whole state.
Mark. Stop aging. You make me feel old, and I only graduated Highschool 2 days ago.
Bro thinks he’s Woods from CoD
I’ve heard they got a lot of blood oceans in Georgia, I’ll bet he’s there to film
Dude… I live in GA, I gotta find him before he leaves 😭
He did say he had a long drive back. I guess he had to drive through Georgia.
"Target located.  Moving troops for extraction."
WHEN IS IT MY TURN?!? all the rest stops ive stopped at in GA i deserve a sticker at least
w shirt too
Yeah that's usually where I find him too. *Zips up pants*
Shame you didn’t ask him when was he gonna finish the Minecraft series he either forgot or abandoned.
Why is he in Georgia?
I wonder if any popular content creators have considered visiting Alaska? It would make for an interesting story.
Like. Georgia the state, right?
Maybe it's just my slight face blindness, but how in the world do you people know the famous person is indeed the famous person and not just a body double?




Like I see people that look like my friends all the time, but I don't approach them because I'm pretty sure it's not them. 


How can you recognize a person you've never met? 


Like if I saw this guy, I'd be like "huh, he looks familiar. Kinda looks like, I dunno, Keanu Reeves maybe?  Or maybe Markiplier?  But doesn't he have purple hair or something?  Yeah, just a body double."
Ethan you worked with this guy for a year straight mate.

Just do a backflip and get your memory running.
Dang, how did you get out of Arrakis?
Wow, I live so close
Amazing shirt btw
I wonder where he's filming at. I live pretty close to Atlanta 👀👀
Is Mark the DILF?
yeah cool mark or whatever. WHY DOES YOUR SHIRT SAY DILF!!!
Lucky man
Bro I live in GA 😭 where’s my magical meeting. Awesome you got to meet him though, really.
Mark seems like a really genuine dude. The way he is smiling, it looks real unlike other celebrities.
Lol ur taller
Looks more like James Ransone than Mark. 

Thst guy on the left looks more like him though
Omg!! That is amazing!!
Since when did markiplier have a DILF shirt?
Confirmed the final steps of Iron Lung being done in Georgia lol
I love that your shirt says DILF lol
Such a cool guy! And hey, Mark is there too.
wow you’re gorgeous and seem very kind hearted from your smile and eyes
Looks like a couple of Third Rock from the Sun enthusiasts
That's awesome!  I think I ever saw him I'd be too afraid that I might annoy him if I asked for a pic with him and I would wimp out lol
You look like that poll guy from youtube. Lol.
That's a weird shirt to see mark in. Didn't know he liked those kind of parties.
lmao the most awkward boy stance
I'm not gonna google TheDILFparty.com at work, but ***god*** that's hilarious with implied context, lol
Your so lucky man
Mark got out of the tub again!!!!
I thought it was mark who got a picture with Timothy Chalamet lol
Which one is Markiplier
Man that's amazing! Ya lucky sonofabutch
I'M SO JEALOUS
I thought this was a post about Mark meeting timothee chalamet
I like getting these random subs in my feed. I legit don't know which one is Mark Plier although guessing left with context clues.
Who?
Wait a minute.. thats Not a Bathtub!
You know, rest stops are the gay bath houses of the 90s
He looks a lot like some dorky guy I used to see around where I live. Is this guy famous?
Im north Georgia or South Georgia is the real question
THE GA rest stop? So QT at 85 and Chamblee-Tucker?
I literally had dreams as a kid to meet markiplier but i live in another country so there is no chance
OMG I LIVE IN GEORGIA
Man which city was this near? I was down traveling through Georgia last week 😭
The dilf party?
So.. I happen to be in Georgia right now.. WHERE IS BRO
That sounds like a perfect Tony Hawk encounter moment lol
For a second I mistook you for chad Ethan😭
Bro is so lucky
Angel whent down to Georgia
My twin
And you wore one of the worst possible shirts in front of him. Well done xD
You look like an ethnically ambiguous Tom Holland
You look both excited and scared in equal measure XD
Which one is Mark? Why do they both look like celebrities
Mark seems like an awesome guy
I WAS JUST IN GEORGIA EARLIER TODAY ON A CAR TRIP WHAT 

I WAS IN THE SAME STATE AS MARKIPLIER??????
I’m just a casual Mark watcher and I’ve been wondering why he’s been wearing those headbands all the time? Is there a reason or does he just want his luscious mane out of the way of his pretty face?
Yall are like the same hight
the shirt really ties everything together
You look like if he and Timothy chalamet abducted a boy and raised him in their image
THE Georgia rest stop, is there only one?
honestly you remind me of tom holland a lot
I swear he’s always in a random place. We saw him at a QT here in Missouri like a year or two ago lol
DID YOU TOUCH HIS BATHTUB?!
Spider man, Is that you?
I first thought you were Timothee Chalamet.
You look like if spiderman and lisan al gaib had a kid
You sure you're not his son?
Nice
I thought you were Ethan for a second
Did you say herro?
You know how in some games if you choose the same character as someone else they change the color of the outfit and hair? You're like that for Tom Holland
I know you said that to Mark first off.  

But you actually look like a mix of Timothee chalamet and Tom Holland.
Bruh got the 0.000- spawn
As a redditor who has no idea what this sub is, but saw the post on the front page, my initial thought was "Oh, Bobby Lee and Timothy Chalmette took a pic together, and they look kind of weird"
Just a couple of DILFs
Aw ur cute
Just... at a random rest area in the middle of absolutely nowhere?

Huh, I figured this guy would have flown to wherever he wants to be, not drive.
Ok seriously dude as AWESOME as that is I'm distracted by the DILF shirt you're wearing 😂
IT SHOULD HAVE BEEN ME………
beneficial concerned fertile languid public wistful shrill amusing fine governor

 *This post was mass deleted and anonymized with [Redact](https://redact.dev)*
So what I need to do is start going to all the rest stop from georgia on got it
That shirt tho DILF?
Did he say "E"?
Huh Markiplier met Lisan Al Galib
OP looks like wish, Tom Holland
That's so cool
Could be here for Momocon!
I realize now that if I ever saw him, chances are I'd not even realize it. I'd probably see him, go "Huh, that guy kind of looks like Markiplier," and just continue on.
Are you sure that isnt Adam Ragusea?
Lisan al Gaib!?
Mark got to take a picture with Kirkland brand Timothy Chalemet
I think that I should start self improving, I’ll be back in two days Reddit. -me
I think that I should start self improving, I’ll be back in two days Reddit. -me
"IT SHOULD HAVE BEEN ME, NOT HIM!"
dude howww
Amazing shirt lol
You are lucky man.
Did Chica have her legs?
You look like his long lost son.
every time i see him, i swear, he looks more and more like keanu reeves.
Could you describe the experience if possible? Honestly if i get a wish from makeawish it would be to meet mark IRL , Its literally one of my top dreams to meet the guy i've been watching for like 9 years straight
What's the thing he's wearing on his head called?
Mark is awesome 😎
I would actually cry so sad i dont live in america :(
such cute babooshka
i'd say you look more like CrankGameplays, or Ethan Nestor if you will
Another reminder that no matter how popular/famous/rich you are, rest stops always slap.
Those guys look chill
He is Chinese!?
Just two good-looking dudes hanging out at the rest stop
Wow, a Markiplier sighting! He poops like the rest of us! xD
Should've asked when "The Final Stretch: Part 2" is gonna start
Bro you’re so lucky
Bro that’s awesome!! I honestly wish I could meet him in person but at the same time my social anxiety refuses to let me
now you gotta do that one tiktok trend where people show off the celebrity they met
THAT IS SO COOL!!! So happy for you!!! Shirt fit the vibe 😂
I’m so jealous 😭 he’s literally the perfect human and must be protected at all costs.
maybe he's here for momocon :0?
Dreams come true ❤️
I live in GA. Which rest stop?!
You lucky lucky boy
How many ladders did you have to stack for him to get that picture?
The DILF shirt is incredible 😂
Bro looks like he's about to cry, id probably do the same too 🥲
If I meet him in real life if he was visiting Florida, I WOULD BE SO HAPPYXD
dude howww
dude howww
When I see a celebrity I like, i usually give them a fist bump, whisper “big fan” and keep on walking.
[deleted]
Sorry! It was me, I’ll put him back now
Do we know if this rest stop has a tub in the back?
likely movie stuff, film is a big industry here and the area around where i live is a sought after place that’s in a ton of movies, and most of marvels stuff at some point
Not sure! But got to see him with Chica 🐶
Probably filming. Georgia is big for film industry these days.
At the end of his latest video, he said he has a lot of driving to do. That's probably part of it.
That was my reaction too, and I *live* here, sadly
I don’t know where they did the private premier for Iron Lung, but if it was out east maybe he road tripped it instead of flying and they are on their way back home? OP mentioned it was at a rest stop, so I imagine Mark was traveling to/from somewhere.

Past few videos were from a hotel too, which would indicate travel.
Guys, is the bathtub a Georgian bathtub??
Iron lung maybe 🤷 idk?
I wonder if he’s driving thru to Ohio to meet with the boys
Isn't there a new fnaf movie coming in 2025? They film a lot of movies in GA now
In distractible he mentioned he was visiting family and friends now his film is done. He’s probably heading to Ohio.
probably filming! atlanta has become as much of a film hub as hollywood is because georgia offers extreme tax breaks to the film industry and has a VERY large variety of scenery (beaches, farmland, cities, mountains, suburbs, boonies, etc)
I think it’s because he’s on his way home  as indicated by the end of his recent video
Georgia does have a big film industry there, could be for that.
They have filming studios in georgia
He could be filming? GA is where they do a ton of filming now due to the low taxes on it.
Making the movie. He said he travels a lot for the movie
If I had to guess? We have a huge series of film sets and sound stages AND do a ton of movie making in the state. Everything considered? Wouldn't be shocked to hear him doing some Iron Lung related stuff down here. 

And we do have an absolutely massive international airport. So maybe he flew back from some euro nation and is driving somewhere like Texas.
He’s on his way home rn
Mark vs GPD?
The Caucuses are lovely this time of year.
[removed]
Thank you 🙏
I think a lot of it is his team too. I vaguely remember him saying on Distractible that people were bringing him stuff and checking in on him because they knew he wouldnt stop working.
I thought the same thing lol
Bro must be God's favorite lol
Same height
Ethnic Ethan
I was the one that said that but this comment is probably a joke and I’m stupid
This is a picture of Timothe Chatafart and Markiplier, dummy.
I thought that was Timothee Chalamet
IM SHOCKED BCUZ GEORGIA?!?! I need to know WHERE LOL
How tall do you think he is?
I was also thinking he kinda looked like he could be Markipliers son.
1000%
Black shirt is undoubtedly markiplier
*THE* gas station, it's right there in the title!
Sorry should have specified, it was the welcome center and I was coming from Alabama
Para de rodar selfbot na sua conta maluco KKKKKKKK
Let's play youtuber. Super big.
Came here looking for this. Figured he'd be heading for Atlanta since it's only like two days away.
A headband
When I see a celebrity I like, I usually put my fingers in their face and whisper “smell my finger” and keep walking
whats wrong with having your hands in your pockets 😭
Make sure to poo in his apple vision after to assert dominance.
YOU SAW CHICA?! DID SHE STARE INTO YOUR EYES?!
I’m ashamed to say I might be more excited to see chica than mark 😭😭
Did you push him out of the Way screaming CHIKAAA!

Because i would xD 


Hope you got to pet her.
Did you get to pet chica?
So jealous!!
Did she have her legs???
How are her legs?
What? I thought you were Ethan
What parts? Near Atlanta?
Did the doggo bless you?
YOY MET CHICA? Did you get to pet her?
Was she a good girl? The goodest girl? 🐶
Assuming this is very recent, he's been done with filming for about a week now. But he has been staying at an Airbnb with the editing crew.
I'm pretty sure the premier was in LA, but I could be wrong. It's hard getting timelines right based on distractible episodes and his most recent videos and when they were uploaded vs recorded.
These are the real questions.
No one was asking about the shirt. Haha!
Did mark comment on the shirt?
NGL all I think for that acronym is "Dang, I love Frogs". I'll assume that's accurate.
Has anyone mentioned you look like Timothée Chalamet
Why is the shirt for an app called Mobile Legends?
Yeah, it's a pretty know fact that Mark will work himself to death if left to his own device, I'm just glad he has ppl who care because he is our internet dopamine dad.
Dude also looks like an off-brand Timothee Chalamet. Some people get all the luck.
How high is mark?
How tall are you?
It is indeed a joke.  But since you said you think it might be a joke, it means you're not stupid as you are able to process the fact that it might be a joke. 
You could definitely do a good “that guy from the dune movie who fucks Zendaya” [I can’t remember how to spell his last name] impression though!
Maybe for momocon?

Alternatively for Iron lung, since Atlanta is yallywood

I'd love to meet him
Shorter than Bob and Wade.
Shorter than Bob and Wade.
Or so you think
it’s true, we only have the one
💀
When I see a celebrity I like, I usually get on my knees
[deleted]
Will do 🫡
I didn’t want to approach him again after asking for my picture but he was super friendly
I was pretty excited to see Erin at YIAY LIVE LIVE, because as we all know she’s the funny one. Sucks that she doesn’t appear on Jack(films)’s channel much anymore, they have great comedic chemistry, but she was getting a lot of disrespectfully comments
OP saw chica too!
I am missing something, was there something wrong with chica’s legs?
This was yesterday actually
Maybe post production stuff then? I just know Georgia is pretty big with the film industry.
He had the same look in the latest videos
So THAT'S why he's in a tub
The premiere was in Austin on mother's day.
I have a MILF shirt with a frog on it that says "Man, I love frogs" at the bottom in small text.  It is one of my favorites
...he sits in a tub with his computer and peripherals around him, and a camera pointed into the mirror and cries about plastic forks
Mark is 5’10” according to Google
Yallywood!!!!!! I love it!!!!!!
...and keep walking
but if they're in your pocket you *do* know what to do with them
Already on it 💩
Yeah I get that. I'd struggle with asking for the picture in the first place. The worst part about meeting celebrities of any level is that there's not really a natural way to do it. You already know who they are and are a fan, etc. 

You got a pretty solid opportunity though. He wasn't eating or at an event. Really the only way you could inconvenience him is if he was in a time crunch trying to get somewhere.
Did she have her legs?!

(but honestly how cool!)
It's weird how you're intimidating by a middle aged man covered in cat hair lmao
Yep he confirmed it on distractible
Oh right! I remember them talking about Texas. That makes sense.
It was in Houston, he's been staying in Austin but the premiere was in Houston

Crazy just days after it got hit by that insane storm
Yessss
The truth. I ran into a pro BMXer at a local park and was just like, “Hey man, uuuuh I don’t wanna be weird, but are you…?” He was super chill after that though. We hung out and talked for like 15 minutes. Unfortunately not every celeb is like that, so you never know whether to approach or not.
I moved down the street unknowingly from Milla Jovovich. She was out walking her dog. I was in my front yard when I looked over and saw her. At first I was like. God... who is that and why does she look so familiar. I approached and explained that I'm the new neighbor and asked her for her name to confirm my suspicion. The funny thing was that she was kinda taken aback by the fact that I didn't just bumrush her and held a decent conversation. Very cool women. Stunning in person even tho she wasn't wearing makeup that day.
It's clearly dog hair you uncultured swine! And her name is Chica! (And maybe Henry.)
It was most definitely in Austin.
Yeah, it seems like they're mostly pretty cool as long as they aren't eating or like, actively doing something.

At the risk of sounding parasocial, it sucks because if I just met them(mark, Bob, Wade, Sean, eef) in the wild without knowing who they are, I think we'd actually get along pretty well. But the fact that I know them and they have no idea who I am, it feels loaded.

Either I make it clear I'm a fan and they go into fan meeting mode, or I don't let them know, we actually become friends and then they learn I was a fan all along and it feels deceptive. I know that's just my own anxiety but it feels unfair to them in a way.
It feels weird for sure. I suppose that instance was a bit different since we’re actively participating in the same activity and had a common interest, but even then I could see how it starts to feel like you’ve gotta put in a show everywhere you go. I’ve heard from other people that he likes to help teach people and stuff like that too though.

One that was weird for me was getting VIP for one of my favorite bands, but even then they were really chill and just like talking to anyone else. I was absolutely star struck at first though
Being a fan and then turning into a friend isn't wierd. It's very common
When is this piece of shit being nerfed?
He’s been broken since he got moved to the jg.
On my climb 2 diamond it was brand lillia rengar evelynn every single game
Honestly Brand is pretty strong. But it feels fine to play vs. him compared to the times then other champs there too strong. I mean there are many ways to counter him....
That wr isnt accurate, cause part of that is pre hotfix, his clear got nerfed already way worse than it was 14.1
No worries guys, they will nerf Shaco 14.3
If R is up and you have tempo/macro, Vi explodes Brand before he can do much of anything.
I'll go get a job at riot and buff him just to mess with you.
the problem is not really brand, but the liandry + mejai combo in champs that have DoT on a skill. Also apllies for lillia on jg, swain on bot lane, malzahar on mid lane...
I dont think he is super strong, but he is never ever weak. A feeding brand still chunks everyone with r and that is a massive issue. A classic example of inflated
lots of people abusing Brand in this thread and it shows with the comments

if Brand isn't highest dmg by the end of the game then I question when and how long he was afk
Most brands do really well into meele jglers running into him over jg objectives with his e q w. And with ult, unless the enemy jungler hard won by lv 6, now the enemy syndra doesnt even want to help the nocturne now at grubs.
I think there are far stronger champ than Brand. He's too strong, yes, but when you see shit like Lillia or Rengar, Belveth or Blue Kayn, those are the strong champ that has to be nerfed. Brand is still very weak early on. Lillia is strong in every second of the game and has basically no counterplay right now, she's too tanky, too fast and does way too much damage.

Rengar is overtuned as hell, on top of that lethality is busted.

Blue Kayn is the same and he can gank from everywhere.

Belveth used to be weak early, now she can duel anyone from minute 0.
Feels so unfair especially early game. Fastest clear and you cant dodge his shit before t2 boots if he is a human.
Fr I am playing tank junglers and this mfer will 100 to 0 me after buying a simple amp tome. There's way too much damage this season.
Trust me the that this we isn't accurate. As someone who abused him during is op time and tested it after his hotfix: The dmg need is notable. Many people stop playing it afterwards and that's why the wr keep being that high. It need some time to come down. He isn't that strong anymore. Keep in mind in Fe. Challenger he was at 73% we meanwhile in emerald + at 66 at some point. 

Such high numbers can't be fixed in some days when the playerbase significantly decreased and the ban rate still is up there cause people still fear him based on war alone. Wait next patch and look at his wr then. He should be around 50%. Feels balanced/strong but not broken
Lol, it's genuinely funny how people have a mental breakdown over brand in JGL. When he gets kneecapped who will you go after next with your pitchforks
He got a qol buff that had buffed him to the moon this patch, before that he was fine, he got hotfixxed nerf day 1 and is likely he will get another next patch
allready did
I might or might not be complicit in this war crime
To me it seems weird, since his clear is very specific. You kinda need to know about waiting your W to go much faster. But I guess its a combination of enemy already bad clearing, not invading, and then huddling together in team fights.
I fear seeing this post because Lillia is on the same tier of broken as he is lol. I don’t want my Fawn to get nerfed
Riots too busy nerfing adcs
I nerf him at champ select with the ban hammer. Oh and fuck fizz off too for good measure whenever possibe haha.
Idk, is brand a really strong pick? He is immobile mage that has 2 skillshots and target abilities with decent range ( all provides with big damage ). Imo, Brand requires a knowledge of positioning and skirmishing to do succesful ganks and grow potential. Otherwise, you just get shitted on by more mobile or heavy control junglers ( especially assasins )
Don’t cry, there are ways to counter brand. Think about rengar, that deals 2000 damage in 0.3 seconds.
I feel like the only counterplay is to play someone who clears faster or an early ganker because you can expect to give up your camps. So aggravating, I wish they would have just kept him as a sup.
Never had a problem with Brand, I pick Elise and I live in his jungle, he literally has 0 counterplay against me.
Im emerald mmr and i legit rarely see brand and when i see him its pretty easy to get ahead and take advantage. I’m playing bel veth tho so maybe that is a reason
It doesn’t change in diamond/masters with the occasionally scary lee/nid
But Eve is dropped on how good she is now in the new season tho. Nocturne is a strong counter to eve and brand
Don't forget the pro play enjoyers that spam xin every game
Eve is straight cancer to play against. Never had a game when she doesn’t have a fully stacked mejais at some point.
I didn't have eve in my games but a lot of noc and xin
Many teams below diamond: group to teamfight and getting blasted by brand.
Brand falls behind, loses hard

still guaranteed highest damage in the game without question

only way Brand isn't highest dmg is if he literally goes afk
Agree with this, I just got Camille and Blitzcrank jg flashbacks, they were sooo annoying to play against.
He's strong but fair.

If you get hit by the full combo, you deserve to die.

He doesn't have stealth, doesn't jump 2 screens away from bushes, and isn't very mobile. The only thing he has is a fuckton on damage.
That's just wrong. [You can clearly see](https://imgur.com/XHpSCO5) the winrate spiked and then still remained higher than the already high winrate 14.1. Unless you think his winrate got higher despite his clear getting nerfed "way worse".  


Image showing all ranks and dia+ stats, taken from lolalytics.
How are these changes a nerf, mana is useless in jg and they are buffing box monster dmg
Shaco is not that good against him, except in invading him, but only early, his ult kind of counters Shaco's ult, also jng Shaco gets buffed. Laner suffers and has to rush mana/mana regen to be relevant.
Yesterday I had a game against him I invaded and killed him once, but the game was decided by a crazy bot lane lead so it didn't matter much.
Brand can rush angel and zhonya but still able to deal shit tons of damage. I fking guarantees you that no Vi nor Noctune can blow Brand with those 2 items without being killed first. I tried so many times
Knowing riot they probably let all new employees buff and nerf whatever they want.
Not strong, but still is never weak? Can chunk while feeding, does Hella aoe damage even when behind? Bug not strong? 

If I go 0/2 as yas, it's jover. But brand can do insane dmg no matter what and isn't "super strong"? What?
Lost chapter brand 1-4 is full build and 1 shots everyone
I haven't played much this patch but....

People don't bait his Q, once he misses his little fireball it's GG and he has to run.

But about him being behind, his clear is so good that he can just power farm for 6 minutes and he is back to even.
Lillia is absolutely Giga busted. Belveth and blue Kayne are fine
Even if you limit the sample size to just 14.02 he’s still this high.
Found the brand player
He was not fine before that. He was 52%ish winrate before, then got buffed to like 56% and is currently sitting at \~54% post-hotfix
Go back 2 bronze I think
If he’s playing with team and pops zhonya when rengar jumps :0
No problem, just don’t team fight!
So how do I counter brand as ADC? My experience is he misses everything presses Ult and gets a kill.
That's the bullshit i have to take always when playing against brand on the enemy team, my team mates group together so brand ults them all, and start pinging why i did not get any closer.
it’s a joke , shaco is really weak rn
AP Shaco sucks, they need to buff him further
Who asked
As a nocturne main i would obliterate brand of he built that as long as you spell shield the stun its free
In my experience even with those items if you get the jump on him he dies.

If you ooga booga run right at him he will destroy you and you deserve it. 😊
1 item AD Udyr would like to have a word.
That's because you're not playing for the 0/10 powerspike
Belveth used to be weak early. Now she isn't.
Kayn is not strong per se, lethality is, so when you factor his mobility with the added damage he's quite strong
Bro, its rude
And then he stands still for 5 seconds so the entire team can hit him with whatever the fuck they want?
I mean jsut don’t stand right next to eachother same applies for malachite
Mid game and on Brand will fall to like 5 auto attacks, late game it's probably 3
Shaco isn't weak. He's a not very good old design and his mains are unhinged loonatics
tbh shaco has always been weak imo like he has no dmg in his kit and solely relies on item passives and/or crit items to do dmg while other assasins have inbuild dmg AND can build the items with passives. Shaco imo is just a worst kha the have a vaguely similar play style except kha has significantly more dmg in his kit and can build items with strong passive and can do more in fights with low q cd and e resets. Only reason why shaco ever had a 50ish% winrate is just people not counter playing him in lower ranks.
Good, that champion is not fun against. Now go after teemo riot.
Nah nerf it harder, the fear duration should at the very least decrease when you hit more boxes as a qol change. Give him like extra .5s or .25s on first fear and then make it drop by .5s for subsequent boxes hit and he might actually be not annoying enough to be allowed to go ap

Literally 90% of ppl, including shaco mains, dont gaf about ap shaco being nerfed, especially if they’re compensated with a longer fear on the first box
Toooooo trueee
Ryleis zhonyas and liandrys makes it really easy to kill him I think as an assassin
Fuckin green pebble
An ADC shouldnt be able to hit a Brand in a teamfight, neither of them will be frontlining
What Adc is killing a liandrys ryleis zhonyas brand in 3 autos let alone 5???
no he is currently weak and yea old designed but that’s why he’s weak his kit needs a slight rework
Have you not read patchnotes? They just nerfed Teemo q, e, and r. His winrate was so bad he needed hot fix buff
if riot is gonna nerf champs that are annoying to play against then it’s a doomed game
Shaco mains DO gaf about ap shaco being nerfed, AD Shaco is way better right now and we hate it
I do not think he is super strong as I am much leas scared of a 6-0 brand than a 6-0 riven... my arguement is his floor for performance is incredibly forgiving regardless if you hit spells/play correctly
Okay, now find kha please under your back
And imagine blue kayn going to dash all your things and release qw onto your face
They’ll frontline in low elo lol
Late game brand is assassin fodder, he is just so oppressive mid game that he gets turbo fed. Especially if you have a burst mage it’s pretty easy to kill him
Riot august casually saying zed is overnerfed, weak and will remain that way because he's annoying to play against.
They already do. Check Zed, Zeri or Aatrox
You do understand kha has no one shot potential into health and Armor builders, and requires mobility to position himself. Ryleis point and click e makes it impossible.
Yeah bro assassin fodder with ryleis liandri zhonya and a peeling toplaner Good meme bro
Okay, im going to build tank on brand, thx brother for idea
I get ur tilted but brand late game doesn’t have any survivabality outside of stun. He gets annihilated by any competent team late that can focus him.
Ryleis and liandries give hp zhonya give Armor is this hard to understand
Champion isn’t broken because if entire team focus him he die 🤯
I don't think he's tilted he's just dealing with a dog brain like u
Its not just build statement, Khazix is way better in ganks and skirmishes than brand jungle, has way more chances to secure jungle lead with big amount of kills and easy to pilot with dashes and invisibility. Brand is only better in wave clear so he can take advantage from early game jungling, but if he wont secure the early lead, then he just fell his advantage off, since Khazix will get better clear soon. Im aint gonna talk about Nocturne or other good champs dominance in jungle against Brand. ( Khazix is really good assasin, dont underestimate his oneshot potential against Brand, high skill kha wont get himself burned by him )
There are busted champs literally every patch, you might as well try to understand how to play against them. I use brand as hubris or mejais stacks because if you get a lead there’s nothing he can do. But nah keep crying brand is the reason you can’t climb.
League players when they get advice on how to counter someone. No wonder y’all are hardstuck.
Khazix 49-50wr brand 54wr. Brand has higher pick rate. I am a KHA otp. I can play any matchup but the brand one is terribly rough since he has the tempo advantage at all stages of the game, you can never really punish because he builds health and Armor, and even if you do put him behind he 1 shots camps on cool-down so he’ll be back with items soon. It’s a very unhealthy playstyle encouragement and the stats show it.
Hmmmm
🤔🤔🤔
Hello! Thanks for posting. This is a reminder about the rules. Make sure the post is appropriate and not to delegate or go against Reddit policy or r/Markiplier Rules. If this does break rules, please report it immediately. Posts that encourage raids on other subs or platforms is a bannable offense.

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/Markiplier) if you have any questions or concerns.*
Hollywood and big platforms like amazon, don't really like tiktokers or youtubers for some reason.. often I have found that celebrities will show animosity to youtubers for dumb reasons, when it's hard gaining a following to bump your channel, an actor in Hollywood just needs to get a role in a hit at the box office and then they're everywhere.
It's stupid imo.

Edit: I didn't actually think people would see my comment and feel strongly about it on either side, there have been a few times where I threw my hands up in surrender because either, I didn't know what to say, or I didn't realize people were offended. I don't mean to offend truly, I'm just frustrated with not having all of the info, and I let that out a bit with this post. 
I want this to go well for Mark because it truly is an amazing show, and I dont want him to possibly get discouraged in releasing more cinematic projects like it because Prime didn't do something or did something underhanded. I'm not saying they are. I don't have all of the info. That's up to the team behind this and the team doing the service. 
I really hope it goes well.
Y'all wouldn't believe how many TV shows get released on Amazon prime.    It's a lot. And like 75% of them get no marketing whatsoever.
Better question is why are they not releasing internationally
Honestly, Amazon just sucks at marketing shows. Even shows with top-tier actors barely get any marketing. Partly, that's just how streaming seems to work now: two or three big shows seem to soak up all the marketing on a given platform while everything else just seems to drop with little fanfair. But Amazon is even worse about it: they'll put a show out, barely advertise it, then cancel it because no one watched it. It's just weird. (Looking at you "Night Sky", J. K. Simmons and Sissy Spacek were absolutely phenomenonal in it, and somehow, Amazon barely put the word out for it.)
You'd think 😂
I would love to watch it but I'm not in the US. Hopefully it gets an international release soon.
Pretty sure this is just one of those articles that rephrases popular reddit posts. It probably only exists because people keep bringing it up here.
Mark kind of said it himself, traditional media (Prime TV is a traditional media distributor) doesn't understand the internet and by extention content creators. The vast majority of these companies are not run by millienals or younger people, who grew up with the internet. Most of them still probably think the internet is a fad (I am not joking about this, there are some executives that think this way).
Just goes to show he was right about mainstream media not taking creators seriously. Well, bedsides Hawk Tuah girl apparently
I’m sure the article says it, but it’s because it isn’t Amazon’s responsibility. All they are doing is distributing it, why would they spend more on marketing when the success of it doesn’t really affect them?
It’s a good question
Just keep telling your friends and family. We’ll be okay
The plan, the plan with the trailer, Marks plan, that changed, the changed plan with the trailer
Its not even on my prime lol I can't watch it
THE PLAN IS GOING NOT THAT BADLY
Dwayne "The Rock" Johnson made a Youtube Red series. Why isn't it trending?
Hollywood and Amazon view YouTube and influencers as competition, for that fact alone even if they're in they're platform they view advertising them as harmful, youtubers are also generalized by big media as being rash, reckless and rude. Which yes is hypocritical. The only exception to this is rule is vide game movies, or viviziepop who was viewed as an animator vs a YouTuber. Regardless Hollywood is not out to hurt them either, but the world does not really care about mark like we do, is he big online? For the most part I'd argue he's iconic, but he doesn't have the same influence as someone like Mr beast. And maybe that's a good thing.
Didnt mark himself say that they cant promote it for anither few days, but that they will then? Like, in the "new plan" video, I swear he said it was gonna be promoted once the original release date hits (sonce it released a few days early).
I have a sneaking suspicion that TEOS is one of the shows amazon agrees to put on prime just so they can have so many options for subscribers. Shows and movies like these are there to basically "fill seats" which is why they don't spend money on them/promote them.
What is bizarre to me is that it's not on any home pages I've used. I had top 10 in US, had three I expected, and a bunch of random stuff, no EoS. I started searching for it, had to basically type out the whole name before EoS showed up. I went to exclusives, it's wasn't even shown.
There are more shows and movies on a streaming service like Prime that have little to no marketing than there are with marketing. They fully expect someone with the audience and fanbase like Mark has to do 99-100% of the market on their own. “They have the audience already” is the stance they will take on it. It is unrealistic to expect marketing like Rings of Power or Fallout had for something like Edge of Sleep. It still deserves a proper marketing campaign.
Why would Amazon pay to promote it when they are getting articles written about their new show for free?
I need it to be available in the UK, thanks
I typed in ‘Edge’ in the Amazon search bar and EOS didn’t even show up in the suggestions. Had to get all the way to ‘of’. SMH. 

Amazon is penny pinching with this one
Well, now we know why Amazon wasn’t promoting it: They didn’t pay for it. It’s basically self-published.
Shows mark is safe from being outed with diddy
It was fantastic.
I think Mark did a better job promoting it than Amazon could.

The show hit top ten just from him saying:
"Okay guys, here's the plan:"
I wouldn't be surprised if the whole Beast Games controversy had soured Amazon on content creator projects as a whole. They may just be trying to avoid any more potential controversy.
the only reason i knew about this amazing show is because of the HUD when you immediately open up prime video, its honestly amazing and i thank you very much markiplier  for the amazing sultry narration/voice over in the show and getting me hooked on Peggy Lee’s “I got to sleep”. me and my girl were actually dancing to it in the living room during the last 2 episodes of the first season. Cant wait for season 2
Edge of Sleep is a Qcode production. Mark acted in it and gave money and advice. This is not Mark's and while it may help him "open doors" that's it. People are acting like just because Mark is involved some big kabal is trying to put a stop to it. For all we know Regency or Qcode did not fight for advertising support from Amazon. These companies may have also had bad deals from Amazon in the past. There will be a lot of factors that we won't ever know about.
Markiplier is probably a sex pest or a creep like most youtubers so they probably don't wanna advertise incase stuff comes out
Its because they know that internet celebrities don't need them.
Exactly, like there are tons of channels that have videos with millions of views and not even 100k subs, it’s hard to become a loved YouTuber/influencer and make a good living off of it
No, Amazon etc just don’t care at all about streamers, it’s not a conspiracy or weird vendetta. Hollywood actors pay for agents with very expensive PR teams that put them ‘everywhere’, if Mark wanted to he could pay exactly the same agents and get exactly the same exposure.
It’s not a ‘big Hollywood wants streamers to fail’ thing, it’s just how the business works.


Edit: you can downvote me all you want but it doesn’t change the nature of reality.
Frankly this whole thing is getting embarrassing now. I’m seeing almost no discussion of the actual show, just a bunch of toxic conspiracies because the rest of the world doesn’t think mark is as important as you do.
Because they have a Diddy chain going in Hollywood. You have to sell yourself to make it anywhere in Hollywood and Hollywood wants to keep it that way. Not only do these weirdos probably just want power, but I imagine the stars that ended up being victims would probably feel worse, realizing that there is a whole platform of famous people, people possibly even more famous than them, that never had to spend their lives being taken advantage of.

In a way, I think Mark and other online creators are going to help tear down this awful system.
doesnt quite fit when theres a lot of viners and youtubers that got play. Look at King Bach. Look at Anthony Padilla. Look at Tobias. Look at Lily Singh. Something else is at play, not that hollywood hates these guys.
I actually don’t think it’s for dumb reasons. The beauty community is the prime example of this. Major companies collaborating with beauty youtubers led them to have to deal with the most insane scandals. And with contracts in place with insane amounts of money in between, I am sure that it made many major anything feel hesitant to collaborate with any internet stars. Most especially with the fact that in recent years, many of these internet giants keep having things exposed about them that I know these big companies don’t want to be dealing with all that. Any YouTuber with a scandal or bad reputation can hinder the performance of anything and that’s where I feel this animosity has an explanation. It’s just unfair that for those who truly are being honest. 

The internet has a bad reputation period. Being an internet star can be dismissed because of this association and seen negatively compared to others who truly work in the industry. 

Essentially yes, it may be about control, but companies have a brand to protect. It’s understandable from a business side. You guys are thinking about it way too emotionally because it’s Mark. He himself has accepted that this is how the ball rolls and he is prepared to fight the fight for his projects. For that we should applaud and support him. He will prove himself despite this all, and of that I am proud of him for.

Edit: Let me include the fact that the marketing issue of this release is an entirely different matter. My personal opinion is that Prime is just unorganized and sucks at promoting their shows that they release that also don’t get much attention either. They’re just dumb imo.
This is what I don't understand. Like, this is obviously the reason for the lack of marketing. To Amazon, Markiplier might aswell be Joe Nobody. Sure, the could afford to market it more, but from their side of the industry, they likely don't even have a second thought about it.

There is no conspiracy, there is no asshattery. Just pure, unadultered corporatist mentality.
Amazon will give anyone a show no matter how terrible it is. And sometimes those shows even get popular. Wild
Tv shows? How many of those are Amazon exclusives?
Mark talked about this in an "emergency meeting" livestream a few days ago! It's because in order to have it be international they would have had to jump through a lot of hoops and get permits/licenses or something like that? If memory serves, at least. I have memory issues though so maybe I'll just go find the link for you!

[Here](https://www.youtube.com/live/tAz9MmtlLsQ) is the link to the live I mentioned!
for the first time in my life I was devastated for pirating something because I HAD to, and I'm definitely buying prime as soon as it releases in my region
It's not just Amazon! It seems like every platform and network does this.
Same
I just got a vpn free trial, really fun show
It is. It’s probably written by AI. There is no conspiracy, Amazon just doesn’t run adverts for anything that isn’t an Amazon original.
That's because hawk tuah girl got a little bit too popular and it seems the media thinks she's the next Charli demilo when she just another pink sauce girl
Same, I had to switch my VPN to the US then force close prime video. Once I opened it back up I could watch it.
marketing has started! people have confirmed seeing ads for it
Weird thing to say when nothing has come out about him. You shouldn’t be spreading misinformation.
Exactly, they don't like that they can't control them
I think it has to do with the recent Mr Beast drama. In their perspective, having two shows surrounding the popularity of internet celebrities is risky
Except that what is happening right now runs counter to that logic.  Hollywood isn't snubbing Mark because "he doesn't need them."  And if Mark didn't need them he would not have put out his desperate appeal to his fanbase to artificially drive *Edge of Sleep* to the Top 10 (and keep it there) so that this will, in his own words, create opportunities he wouldn't otherwise have.

I mean, that's *Mark's* own words, who has been dealing directly with these people.  Blithely declaring "they're acting like this because internet celebrities don't need them and they know it" is so ridiculously the opposite of actual reality.
And their fan bases can and do manipulate the algorithm
A ton of minecraft accounts still average millions of views regularly it’s insane, YouTube is its own streaming service
Agreed that people are blowing this out of proportion and likely they don't care about Mark as much as the fans think. But TV and Movie media definitely view YouTubers who are becoming popular and powerful, and don't want to play their games as a threat. Mark has spoken to this, that could also just be his perspective, but the thought tracks.
Finally someone said it
You're not wrong.. and it sucks... it's literally a Hollywood vs. the internet. Streamers and YouTubers are on their own. Fortunately for  got millions of people that get things seen.
I could go and ask everyone in my neighborhood and I’m guessing maybe 5 would know who Mark is, people can’t grasp that outside the fandom and internet these people aren’t celebrities. Hollywood isn’t against them, they just aren’t at the level required by Hollywood and that’s ok.
Literal tons and tons. Because that's where a lot of filmmakers drop their TV shows if they can't get it anywhere else Amazon prime probably has more TV shows that aren't any anywhere else versus any other streaming service
Oh Thanks for the tl;dw, i unfortunately do not have enough time to sit through 3 hours of stream. Will do so in parts
That's why i said probably
Naw, they've always hated internet celebrities. They're "not real celebrities" in thier eyes, despite having literally tens of millions of fans in some cases
Even when Markiplier had gotten a nomination for his Space show, he said no one at the event even cared he was there. Not a single interview or acknowledgment for his work. In the past, sure some people have gotten their own talk shows, but I’m pretty sure even then it doesn’t do very well because of marketing.
I work in the industry and trust me they honestly don’t care. They know they have control of the production/distribution system so know if a streamer won’t play with them they ultimately won’t succeed. 
That’s what all of this is about, that’s why mark wants to keep the numbers up because he views that as ‘playing their game’ and he wants that because he wants to be successful in tv/film
Mark has not talked one iota about being perceived as a threat.  That's you reading into what he has said about being ignored and not noticed.
It’s driving me crazy!
I like marks content, he’s funny and relatable, but I don’t understand the cult level of simp for him that’s going on. I watched edge of sleep once, it’s fine for a low budget production but to suggest it deserves to outperform things like ring of power is absolutely insane. I won’t be watching it again and it blows my mind that some people seem to be streaming it constantly on a loop? Do they not have jobs or lives or anything else they want to watch?
I'll sit down and find the specific timestamp where he says it in a bit! Sorry, was gonna edit that in for you because I also didn't watch the whole thing, he just said it within the first like 25 minutes, just hadn't had the time
Dude, thats not a probably. Thats a fucked up thing to say about anyone. SAYING THAT ITS "ONLY" LIKELY DOESNT CHANGE THAT
I've had trouble getting this through to some people who can't understand the term influencer or use it as a derogatory (though it still can be in some cases, so can celebrity). Some of these people are making posts seen by tens of millions of people daily. Their names are recognizable and often are quotable. They're celebrities period.
Personally I think Mark is hard locked into this idea Iron Lung has to be in movie theaters, he is the artist whatever. Playing by their rules makes it easier but it's not required.
Rhett and Link of Good Mythic Morning have spoken to how hard it can be if you don't play ball. But they have become successful and built off their own backs. While Danny and Micheal of RackaRacka made a whole movie and got it in theaters without the help of Hollywood, and it was successful even by industry standards, so it is possible. 
Sure there are plenty of delusional people in Hollywood that think streaming content can't compete with Traditional media. But in America they are losing the war hard. If they didn't see the writing on the wall why would they make their own streaming services, or buy existing ones?
If you want to be more specific he has said he felt disliked and ignored and he attributed this to him not needing their assistance and then not liking that fact.
Exactlyyyyy I have no idea why the show NEEDS to be number 1 simply because mark made it. This whole making my favourite YouTuber my entire personality is absolutely insane. I watch mark casually and really enjoyed his fnaf videos, but Jesus the level of cult following here is nuts.
Dude.  They're literally trolling and you're just feeding them.  Report them and stop giving them what they came for.
Oh I’m not saying their attitude is right, I’m just speaking to the fact that people keep saying they are deliberately keeping streamers down and actually they don’t think about them at all. The big streamers are struggling generally, the whole industry is in a massive slump but it just isn’t  true that Amazon is deliberately trying to sabotage mark because he’s a threat
> If you want to be more specific he has said he felt disliked and ignored and he attributed this to him not needing their assistance and then not liking that fact.

And that makes what's happening right now rather ironic given that Mark has decided he does in fact need their assistance.
I'm not gonna lie.  The absurdity of people here thinking that Mark *deserves* this or that his future creative endeavors all hinge on this, is kind of making me hope that this show *doesn't* stay in the Top 10.

Mark is gonna be just fine.  He's a millionaire with vastly more resources and opportunities available to him than most people will have *ever*.  And to be frankly honest, I'm disappointed that *he* clearly didn't think that Edge of Sleep could survive on its own merit.  If he believed in the show, he wouldn't think he had to instruct his fanbase to artificially drive up its popularity ranking.
It is done
guys i think it’s finally time 
Hello! Thanks for posting. This is a reminder about the rules. Make sure the post is appropriate and not to delegate or go against Reddit policy or r/Markiplier Rules. If this does break rules, please report it immediately. Posts that encourage raids on other subs or platforms is a bannable offense.

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/Markiplier) if you have any questions or concerns.*
I could see Mark drinking it all out of sheer spite
nah man he donated it to his local vampire community
He sent the blood back for Bob and Wade to use in their own movie called “more blood then mark used”
I need to calm down…..

I need to calm down…..

I nEeD tO cAlM dOwN
I'm shaking and crying rn!
HE FINALLY DID IT!!!!
Maybe the real Iron Lung was the friends we made along the way.
Is the movie…
# HERE
The time is almost upon us!!!
I'm screaming rn please tell me this is super soon
So trailer soon then
Oh my god Wade dared mark to get as much as he can to fill up all the seven seas.
Can someone please give me context
He gave it to V1
He never put it back
Is it gonna be released in theaters
He actually sent it over to King Charles for his portrait
He is probably referring to the trailer. Movie will be done by Christmas... 2025.
"I keep all the blood in my IRON LUNG"
Looks like it’s going to be a mix of Christween again.
i wonder if this is conneted to the markiplier lore at all.... also, cloakbrand is techniccally owned by mark, so....
Yay. 🥳🥂
The hour is upon us at last
AHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHH
Clearly the answer is no.
No, he gave it all to Lady Dimitrescu
No. No he did not
He needs that blood🧛🏻‍♂️
put it back in the bottle mark
Let’s goooooo
Dudes probably been bawling his eyes out. Garden hoses spewing out of his tear ducts.
LOL
oooooo i hope so
wtf
I might be the only one who doesn’t care but good for everyone else I guess
[removed]
Yeah, not a masochist, just wants to see if his body can take it
Filling his pool, that would be weird.
Trying to get on Lady Dimitrescu's good side lol
r/forgottoswitchaccount
no gamzee, bad!
it just premiered in Huston a few days ago so it *should* be released for the public soon!!!
STOP SCREAMING AND AWAIT FURTHER DEVELOPMENTS
no goose! he’s gonna release the first 2 minutes of the movie and then every year after that is another 2 minutes 😂
so mark has been making a movie based on the steam game Iron Lung (made by his editor Lixian). he released the trailer for it back in october and the running joke is that it’s never actually going to get finished but it just premiered in Huston a few days ago so that means that it *should* be released for the public very soon
EDIT: the movie is based on a fan game (made by Lixian) which is based on the game made by David Syzmanski 
(Thanks to everyone who corrected me 😊)
his entire subreddit better get tickets then. we’ve been so patient 🥲
ik that’s why i think it’s so funny. (if he’s the one who posted to CLOAK) that means that he tweeted from his main account and switched accounts only to reply to his own tweet
True
Same, genuinely uninterested in this movie project. I thought the game sucked so I can't imagine why anyone would want a movie of it.
Promotion of other YouTubers or any other type of promotion not pertaining to Markiplier is considered spam here. Please read the rules and do not spam the sub. Questions/comments can be directed to us via Mod Mail, thanks!
After everything he did this would only get him on the neutral side at best.
Did not expect to see a homestuck reference on r/Markiplier
Nice
It premiered??? Where are you getting that from? I googled it and see nothing?
Wdym "premiered"? Marks done editing the movie?
ooooo, i hope i can watch it where i live in the states
Thanks bro I was starting to run out of breath
The game was not made by his editor
Not Lixian,  David Szymanski made iron lung. 
 (Lixian made a fan game like it later)
Isn't the movie based on the actual iron lung game and not lixians fan game?
Ooh cool I did hear something about the iron lung debacle. Thanks!
This comment is making me lose it, first you said Lixian made Iron Lung, then you "corrected" it to say the film is based on Sinking Iron. Are you trying to mess with people?
You're still wrong. The movie has nothing to do with Lixian's fan game, it is based directly on "Iron Lung" itself which Lixian had nothing to do with.
The movie is based on the game iron lung, lixian has literally 0 part in any of this besides helping mark edit the movie lol. Mark was just captivated with the idea and story in iron lung.
same, we been waiting
yeah
[deleted]
the excitement isn’t because there’s going to be a movie about iron lung, it’s the fact that mark has finally achieved his goal of directing and making a movie. he’s said in multiple videos and podcast episodes that he’s always learning and striving to be better and this is a fabulous way for him to do so. (plus we get markiplier movie out of it 😁)
Same

The game had you just pace around the same small submarine
pff
momiplier made a post about it iirc
yes goober that’s what this whole thread is about
Yes, OP seems to have gotten a little confused and thought Lixian made Iron Lung
No, OP is just very very stupid on top of not being great at English
i’m literally so confused. could you explain it to me?
You're correct, never tried to claim it was a fact.
That’s cool


Don’t really care about the movie tho
Glad some are excited for it, just sharing that I'm not.
i did 😭 but i fixed my original comment
What's confusing to you? The movie is based on the game "Iron Lung". Lixian's fan game has nothing to do with the movie, it is not necessary to mention it at all when talking about the movie.
Wait, one more correction: I'm pretty sure the movie isn't based on the fangame Lixian made, it is based off of Iron Lung. I believe the movie is also called Iron Lung. Lixian's game is not part of this at all
I hope Chica…
Makes an appearance in Iron Lung. She was in Heist with Mark, In Space and most importantly: Petting Chica Simulator. It would only make sense for this angel to make an appearance in the movie as well. 
Hello! Thanks for posting. This is a reminder about the rules. Make sure the post is appropriate and not to delegate or go against Reddit policy or r/Markiplier Rules. If this does break rules, please report it immediately. Posts that encourage raids on other subs or platforms is a bannable offense.

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/Markiplier) if you have any questions or concerns.*
I hope it was accidental. She just wandered on set and nobody noticed until it was too late.
She's probably on a picture frame somewhere on the Iron Lung.
She'll definitely be in as co-director
I feel like I remember Mark mentioning on Distractible that she was on set with him for some mysterious reason …
She’s the best girl on the set
I hope she gets all the pets she deserves too!
She would make a good post credit scene cameo
i asked mark on a member stream, and he said he didn't want to spoil it like that but she will be on the movie lol
i thought the title was going for "...still has her legs"
….grows legs
Her being in like a little behind the scenes clip during the credits is all I ask
bait title got me, quite funny. w post
I really want to see Chica in it, such a lovable dog.
I really thought this was gonna say finds her legs and I’m really sad it didn’t
I love the fact that Marks face is cropped so that Chica is the focal point😂 kinda reminds me of the running joke of Ryan Reynolds and Blake Lively cropping each others faces when they post about them lol
Y’all are tripping. Though it would be nice to see her in the movie, y’know? A nice little cameo
Edge of sleep season 2 starring Chica?
As much as I would want it to happen, I don't think it will because the difference between those projects and Iron Lung is that Iron Lung is meant to be a lot more serious and scary, the reason why Chica being there worked in the other projects is because those ones are meant to be more funny, cartoony and less serious.
I wish she was in edge of sleep but she wasn't. 

WE NEED MORE CHICA CONTENT
Just imagine her swimming in the blood.... 😂
You scared me so bad, all I could see was “I hope Chica” and I thought something was wrong with her !
Wuh happuh?
No it wouldn't 🙄 jesus
I disagree.
Exactly like the camera pan down to her being a guard dog in Heist
I’m imagining a miniature shot of the submarine plunging, then a giant Chica jumpscare
That sounds like the most realistic thing I've read through the comments lol
I hope Mark did the same thing the developer of the original game did and hides a Chica picture just out of frame on the floor.
Whoever downvoted this comment needs timed out from the subreddit.
On set therapy dog
He did mention it, both Chica and Henry were there almost as mascots of the production
It’s just this 2 horror experience, the credits roll but what’s this? The lights are still down… BOAT DOG BOAT DOG BOAT DOG BOOOOAT DOG
Lol, she's one of the monsters on the moon in the blood sea

"...... Chica's hungry...."
Am I too late for chica has no legs jokes?
I'm here not cause of bait title, but because picture of chica.
And they all center around Markiplier. Iron Lung isn't about "Markiplier", it's a completely different project.
The only way I could imagine it working would be if she was playing dead in a scene showing why earth is no longer habitable
I agree. Kids are weird and clearly don't understand how things work.
I agree with you.
[deleted]
I'd say more likely to be in a wallet or something, maybe like what people do in military movies and put the photo on the dials. That'd be neat
That wouldn't really make sense. Why put something out of frame in a movie? Nobody is going to ever see it. With a game you can at least hack it and explore out of bounds. In a movie hiding stuff like that is just a waste of time.
No just banned from Reddit entirely
Honestly, you'd be amazed what people downvote on Reddit, man
Didn't he say he took Chica into the office one day, and she immediately shit all over the carpet? So he spent the day trying to scrub it out instead of working on the script or something as well? I think that was for Iron Lung 🤔
its never too late for those jokes
It's not that Earth is no longer habitable, it's that Earth is literally just gone.
What is with yall being against chica???
God this comment feels so ai generated
That would be cool too!
That’s the joke mate
Lmfao this is so funny 😭😭 poor Chica and poor Mark for having to clean it
I think this was during his internship with Corridor Crew? But don't quote me on that
I'm not against her, I just don't think it would be practical for her to be in Iron Lung.
What was it lmao
“Do it for her” locket but inside it’s chica
I think so as well, but also don’t quote me
"Don't quote me" -Foxy02016YT 2024
Damn
"Damn" -Foxy02016YT, 2024
I'm not sure how I feel about this headline but... okay
Link in comments
Hello! Thanks for posting. This is a reminder about the rules. Make sure the post is appropriate and not to delegate or go against Reddit policy or r/Markiplier Rules. If this does break rules, please report it immediately. Posts that encourage raids on other subs or platforms is a bannable offense.

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/Markiplier) if you have any questions or concerns.*
i mean, it was not premission, it was a challenge
I think the Headline is really funny.

I just like the implication of mark Sending Amazon prime a "professional" email Aksing for premission to Crash the top 10.
Permission? What an odd choice of words
He deserves every good thing coming to him, and that article just is confirmation that he indeed, made it :)
Yea, we crashed top 10 even though we had zero marketing for the show, zero promotion material and it fully depended on the community. Yes.
As opposed to crashing it with permission
WE ARE OPENING THAT DOOR!! THE PEOPLES CREATIVITY NEEDS TO NOT BE LIMITED TO EXECUTIVES AND NEPOS
I feel like anything tied to that headline has something to do with the fact that the community had been edging for the past couple of weeks...
[article](https://www.forbes.com/sites/ianshepherd/2024/10/27/meet-the-creator-who-crashed-amazons-top-10-without-permission/)
Journalism is in an atrocious state lol i can’t even begin to figure how someone comes up with this headline, “without permission” is so weird lol
Honestly at this point I'm kind of shocked when a news article online doesn't use some sort of clickbait/rage bait headline to get attention.
Clearly Forbes is trying to say they think Amazon’s Top 10 are fixed except for Edge to Sleep
I think it’s good. Shows that he’s not going to conform to dumb industry standards and and norms. He’s not going to let them keep studios doors closed in his fair.
I think they mean well lol, but I see what you mean haha
>Without Permission

In translation; *didn't go through the industry gatekeepers to be successful*. These people should be ashamed of themselves for stifling creativity, but they are so proud of it - that they tell on their publicity syndicate with headlines like this.
Looks like they are paying attention
Considering the weird "It´s out but it kinda isn´t" situation, I find it kinda fitting. 

EDIT: What I don´t like about it is that they made me visit the Late Night with Seth Meyers Youtube because I thought he was on, only to find out that he was not. At least not recently.
Yea I think the title is being sarcastic and cheeky lol
Unlike every other time a streaming service crashed, when the people responsible submitted the proper "Crashing your servers" request beforehand via properly filled modules and forms.
Without reading the article for me it implies that a lot of shows and movies get tons and tons of publicity and those who don't final miserable.
For example, there were a lot of complaints last year of Disney doing theatrical releases of movies without any sort of support.
In this same scenario TEOS, released silently and it was "mark" (doing this challenge) that without asking for permission of the bigger whales (who have the resources) for the series to be in the Top 10.
That's my grain of salt.
You had permission you just didn’t have Judge Judy’s. WE BEAT THE SH#T OUT OF HER!
Man, I want to be happy about this and enjoy it as is, but Amazon does NOT have the best track record with smaller productions. The show could blow up the whole service with views and they're still likely to kick it to the curb without a proper ending.
(Yes I'm mad about the Good Omens debacle, so I feel very mixed about getting into a new show that might very well receive the same "underdog audience" treatment)
He just wants a sponsor. PLEASE SPONSOR HIM!
[42nd!!!](https://youtu.be/EqBt8Rkyoq4?si=4hM7Nf6RrwOuyBXj) And while it is not the headline that we deserve, but it is the headline that we need.
Wear this as a medal of honour
[deleted]
they fucked around and found out about his fans rofl
They just mean that he's largely unknown/unrewarded in the "industry" and he came up out of nowhere with something he made, produced, and acted in.
I don't agree with the headline, but if the click bait means more eyes then I'm all for it.
A yes because all the other shows needed Permission to be allowed in the top 10, this feels like another example of traditional media not understanding YouTube or content creators as a whole
CHAOS
Sounds like a Yakuza chapter card
What position did EOS hit?
JRR Tolkein is coming out of his grave to stop LOTR from being top 10 because they didn’t have his permission
When a bunch of dudes with a dream make something more passionate than Amazon's LotR money dumpster.
Damn he is so handsome in that photo. Like more than normal.
AND WE’LL CRASH IT AGAIN
I remember when he twerked as a punishment for something or other… also he chose the punishment… anyways he has a dog now
I think it's supposed to make Mark sound edgy, but it's just not whats actually happening. If anything, they demanded he do it to get his other things green lit and was shocked he pretty much did. 

A better option would be "Meet the Creator Who Beat Unimaginable Constraints, Much to Amazon's Surprise."
Just imagining Mark kicking the door in.
The article headline does a good job of catching your eye, I read it and was pleasantly surprised to see the narrative is about how Mark is changing the relationship between content creators and major marketing places like Amazon for the better.
Feels weirdly anti-youtuber

Like “he’s not a real artist so he did this without anyone wanting him to” kinda vibes
That's just scary. Mark is brave to put up with this garbage.
Mark needs no premission from anyone to do as he pleases
the plan all part of the plan
The best clickbait title ever.
Permission??? Huh???
This is rude af in my opinion, like why would he need permission?
When Mark asks us a favor, we fucking do it! Lol
Well its like the interview with his manager said there is animosity that he's succeeding when they wanted him to fail, mark will prolly not acknowledge this fully because he's a chill dude and doesnt want us to pitchfork
Ohh. I find it funny that anything mark tells the mark army to do something or watch something. That website ends up crashing or breaking in some way
i think the headline is playing on the whole “Provider chooses who becomes mainstream”, and showing that Mark broke that trend against Amazon’s will.
What a weird choice of words
[Someone wrote a book about him without his permission](https://youtu.be/5SP9ozIIrn0)... [Someone added him in a dating sim](https://youtu.be/ysROgI5qDL8) (I think, haven't watched that video yet) [without his permission](https://youtu.be/ysROgI5qDL8)...

It's about time he does something cool without permission back...
Journalist writing "without permission" sitting back in their chair, crossing their arms and saying to themselves, "heh.. checkmate"
Imagine this is the same news site as the one who made the "innocent looking lawyer" headline back at hit podcast distractable
That was the plan!!!!!!
Why not bring back the “joke” on how short he is. I understood that meme dudes 5’10
without permission? like we fucking needed it
Without marketing would make more sense, cuz idk if there was much money on actual marketing since I didnt see any ads
Wait people need permission to advertise now? Great! Let me opt out of advertising across the board.

What? Advertising is fine, but you need permission to do it *this* way, because we didn't like the results? Oh, right. Sure then.
Ah okay. After reading the article, the title makes sense. Wasn’t a fan of the title initially but after reading it, it basically is saying that Mark received many rejections even from Amazon to have them pick the show up so instead of getting the approval from these big streaming services, Mark financed it and partnered with New Regency. 

So they are saying instead of “getting permission” and doing it the normal way of pitching the idea and hoping a service picks it up, Mark did it his way “without permission” and made it happen.
It's definitely an odd title... And he's gonna fucking do it again with Iron Lung.
I feel like people are mostly upset about the whole "permission" thing. But for me, I find it annoying that Mark gets credited as the "creator" of the show, when he's just an actor and small producer on the show. He's neither the writer or director. So calling him the creator is just plain wrong, and shows how little research the writer of the article did.
I wish they make the show available on prime outside of US too I wanna watch the show but can’t & no VPN doesn’t work properly here 🥲
Picture is from interview 4 years ago on Late Nite with Seth Meyers. Can't find original interview online, only the highly edited versions
is mark still doing that iron Lung movie?
I kind of like it since it’s probably exactly how the executives are feeling right now. “This shouldn’t have happened since we didn’t have a hand in it.” 

I can also get feeling weird about the phrasing- we(Mark) weren’t asking for permission. But I’m reading it more as a backhanded spotlight being put on the industry. They’ve been gatekeeping what content gets made long enough.
The mainstream-media fears a creator with a true following who isnt an idiot (as least not all the time)
The headine is great, since its a supportive stance against gatekeepers in the media
I guess it makes sense, trying to frame him as an underdog; because he is, right? It reads as positive, and everyone loves to root for the little guy.
What's your issue with the headline?  It aligns pretty well with the problem that Markiplier has discussed.
The number of people with no media literacy responding to this post is staggering. Obviously, Jeff Bezos is not writing permission slips to the big winners of the media industry. It’s a complimentary headline that is commenting on his ability to succeed as a semi-independent in an industry dominated by massive players.
Everyone is calling it "markipliers show" he was just an actor in it lol
A better one would’ve been “The Creator Who Beat Up Judge Judy”
Where do I watch this?
I know lol. Like what you mean "permission"
Are we all really going to ignore how it literally says Ian is an investor for that?
Without permission
“Without permission” We had Mark’s permission.
...who's permission do you ask?
I mean if you read the article it’s very much in support of mark but yeah the headline is interesting wording
Counter attack: demand Amazon sponsor you.

Just glad to see someone passionate and with a dream is Winning over big budget low grade stuff. We see your authenticity and that will continue paying off.
He had permission though??? Like they told him to get in the top ten. Like permission is a weird word but as far as getting permission, you can't get any closer than Amazon telling you to get in the top ten.
I saw this and was like whattttttttttt?????
Since when do you need to ask for permission to get good?
The pose in that picture is perfect.

  
It's like you're asking, "ME??"
Honestly, that headline reads in exactly the same way as what we all speculated about how Amazon has handled this show. 

Congrats on the achievement, though, to the whole team that made it possible and to the communities that made it happen. Don't let the lack of 'permission' cheapen what happened here. ❤️
Unfortunately, it's really easy in journalism to simply not take internet celebrities seriously, because despite the wild success of many of them today (ESPECIALLY Markiplier), they're still seen as "manchildren on the internet who got viral for no reason." It's a sentiment that ultimately bites them in the ass because those "manchildren" are finally digging their nails in their respective industries and are finding GREAT success. Regardless, journalists will cope by trying to water down such achievements to "wow, cant believe this geek accidentally made it big."
“Without permission”? This feels like a weird dig at Mark simply for not being a major-name Hollywood producer with money to throw at promotion, dressed as entrepreneurial empowerment.
The amount of people typing “premission” is honestly wild. But what a weird headline. Odd choice of words, for real.
What permission does he need? Lmao
"permission" what
I mean, no one needs permission to promote their own work but okay
Who does he need permission from? Jeff Bezos?
Is this new? 
I can't find it where do you watch if it's new?
idk - i think it's kinda' badass.
Where can I find the episode I need to watch this
I mean yeah the wording is a little odd, but after reading through the article I'm pretty sure the author is trying to paint Mark as this "badass rebel artist who goes against mainstream conventions and is revolutionizing filmmaking"
The article is very good but yeah. Weird choice of words for a headline lol. I think it was just for clickbait
makes you wonder if the top ten shows are intentional for more viewership….
Fkn ignore them
ITS THE CARTEL MEDIA. HUKKTUR
I think it's funny and good for Mark.
Enough people have discussed the weird "without permission" bit but I think the fact they assume I don't know who Markiplier is with the "meet the creator" part is way funnier. His subscriber count is larger than the population of some countries, but let's phrase it like he's some unknown newbie XD
Yeah, the headline is kinda weird but the article was pretty good overall at least!
This headline feels written by Markiplier’s himself. I kinda love it
I take issue with the fact that this kind of implies Marl created the show. I love Mark, but I feel like he's drawing too much credit away from the actual production team.
The words "crashed" and "without permission" I find off putting. It's like they are implying "how dare some YoUtUbER make a show and be a part of our Traditional media, don't they know their place??"
Without permission? What was he supposed to do ask? “Hey you mind if I crash Prime Video’s top 10 shows?” like wtf
It's just some click bait/rage bait. That's the only thing any journalist does nowadays. Isn't even surprising anymore
Mainstream media just doesn’t respect online creators.
asians are always pinned as hackers istg
Without permission?!
I told you so subreddit 😂
My name is John Amazon and Markiplier peed in my Top 10 pool.
Hell yeah

What a headline

We edged so hard we crashed Amazon
Lol did i miss something 
What happened  x3
Wait he was on a talk show
WAIT DID IT MAKE THE TOP TEN ALREADY
It simply shows the difference between Hollywood and Internet users. YouTubers are viewed as tourists at best, interlopers at worse... Mark here snuck in and blasted halfway up the leaderboard without even proper advertisement. It's noteworthy even if they don't want to acknowledge it.
Idk I think it’s clever
Was permission required?
Is this an old photo or did he cut his hair? I love him with short hair he looks good!
This is hilarious. Who has ever asked permission for success in the history of ever? Absurd. Congrats Mark.
What’s this image from?
Okay if everybody read the article it’s more of a congratulations to Markiplier success of his victory to even make it onto Amazon which I think is awesome of being a follower of his for such a long time and all the stuff he had to and has gone through to get where he is today. They aren’t talking down  on him
He cut his hair😭
Wait markiplier broke Amazon? Can someone catch me up, been working all week nonstop
Top 10 what? Airplanes? Is...Markiplier immortal and a bad pilot?! He should be better at flying if he's a vampire.
Almost like artificially inflating the numbers isn't this good thing you all seem to think it is 🤦‍♂️
Lol this cant be real, mark had a hair cut...... AI? 🤣
Power of dream defeated Power of money
Dear (not really) Amazon.

I am writing to you to "ask for permission" (think of it more as a warning than a plea) to blow the back door of the top 10 of your shows.

May this email find you before I do,  
The king of the squirrels, FNaF, and Edging, Mark.
If you think about all the rejections he received from Hollywood studios before rising to the top ten on his own, the title makes more sense. I think they’re trying to say that the bigwigs that usually tightly control what is and isn’t successful tried their best to make him fail, hence him not having their “permission.” I’m getting the vibes that it’s supposed to be praising him for sticking it to the man, and they were just trying to be creative with the headline.
that's what i was thinking but apparently no one else agrees with me except you
It is odd but I think it’s tongue in cheek on purpose
It does feel kinda passive aggressive doesn't it? Like how dare he do this? Unfortunately given the fact that content creators are not widely accepted in the film and movie industry, this will unfortunately happen a lot. I just think that if that is what they are implying it's very sad. You can see the work mark puts into his work. It's unfortunate there are still people out there that want to make him out to be the bad guy. I do think that will change. I just think it'll take time.
I know it's crazy to see how far he's come. We're all so proud of him
There is marketing for the show from both prime and qcode. They have advertments out. They just didn't start till the official release date of the 18th. 

It's still cool we managed to get into top 10 before then though!
There has been a decent amount of ads now, even some from prime. It just took until the 18th, which is still weird as hell, but it’s likely contract shit. Hopefully the second season has better advertising
Bro saying we like he has anything to do with the show
Edging of sleep
https://www.forbes.com/sites/ianshepherd/2024/10/27/meet-the-creator-who-crashed-amazons-top-10-without-permission/
exactly, thank you!
I'm pretty sure it's sarcasm and not actually negative towards Mark.

I mean, the first line of the article, visible at the bottom, is literally about "traditional entertainment gatekeepers"

It's sad that this comment got 100 upvotes. So many people lack reading comprehension.
Christ. If any of you read the article it explains in literally the very first sentence. But sure go off on the failure of journalism whilst being totally unwilling to do even the bare minimum of due diligence yourself.

And for all you out there that **still** won’t actually read it. The title is positive. The writer is talking about how the entertainment industry is largely gatekept by the media giants and without specific backing or endorsement from any of them, the people behind this show were able to get it into the heights of popularity anyway. 

The article is using Mark and this show as an example of the power that internet personalities and internet communities have to bypass the existing giants of media spaces.
Journalism is glorified propaganda
media literacy and reading comprehension are in an atrocious state lol i can't even begin to figure how someone thinks this headline "without permission" is so weird lol
I mean, it kinda is. Most of these shows have been up there for a while now
That’s exactly what the title means, and if you actually read the article you would see that the writer is presenting this circumvention of industry gatekeepers as a positive.
His hair told me it wasn't a recent interview.
Wait, what happened with Good Omens?
It isn't misleading at all.  It's a direct reference to what Mark himself has stated many times over.  That he's trying to break into an industry that doesn't respect Youtube creators.  You remember the post where he talked about the major roadbloack being **because** of him rather than despite him?  That's exactly the headline refers to:  Mark succeeding without the approval of the gatekeepers.
yeah i don't like that either
if you have a friend in America with prime on discord, have them (or you) make a server and they can stream it to you. i did that with my partner in the uk so they could watch it
yup
Amazon Prime
It isn't.  I'm honestly startled that anyone thinks it is.  It's a direct reference to Mark trying to succeed in an industry that does not want him.
It's the opposite.  The writer supports Mark.  He's talking about the fact that this is a David vs Goliath situation.  Mark **did** succeed without permission. That's the entire damned point being made.
old pic
old picture dumdum
Mark came out with “edge of sleep” on amazon prime video recently, which crashed the entire site because so many people were watching it.
Making it so more shows can be made is definitely a good thing
It’s not… artificial? Artificial would be botting the show to get more watches than it actually has. This is real people enjoying it.
FK YEA
I think the letter of him "asking" "permission" from "Amazon" will have the same energy as him "eating" Takis
"may this email find you before i do" is so damn good i'm stealing that
P.S: Are you close?
You're missing the direct demand of a HUMONGOUS CHECK (both in size and money amount) for not sending his ~~cult~~ uhm ~~followers~~ uhm "fans" after them.

But otherwise perfect.
Wait when did he become the king of Edging?
100% this title is praising him because he defied the odds. They didn't give him "permission" because they didn't advertise the show at all. His show was successful despite the little to no support from Amazon who probably thought it'd be a dud.
It is certainly click bait, because the wording is controversial enough to make you want context. I haven't read the article so I don't know the author's intentions, but I can see it being taken both ways.
so by being quasi-independent, it's odd that going direct on prime is going thru the backdoor lol

other *filmmakers\** have done it before. it's just that *their\** story quality isn't like that of Jake and Willie, the financial and fanbase numbers aren't what Mark has, and the performance is just better & more natural in *Edge of Sleep\**.  .... those other productions didn't ask "permission."

but let's be honest. if you have 37 million+ people watching your series, you'd hit #1 on DAY 0.

I'm surprised A24 didn't want to back Mark up. Glad that New Regency said yes.
idk about that, I'm reading a whole comment section full of people who agree.
And the 972 other people who upvoted that comment
i agree with you too, i’ve never seen a headline like that it’s kind of upsetting in a way. it feels like he just deserves a better headline. he may not be a professional (i think he’s amazing don’t get me wrong) but he’s getting better and better. he’s achieving so much that he genuinely wants and works so hard for this. i’m genuinely soooo proud of him and he deserves so much, i couldve wrote a way better headline smh
yes exactly! thank you! that's what i meant!
"The series, adapted from Fischbach's successful podcast of the same name"

They don't credit anyone else for the series or the podcast in the article.  Mark's great in both, and I didn't realize how much he funded the show, but there were still a lot of other people involved.  Mark has mentioned the writers and director several times so I'm sure he would have liked them to get the credit they are due for their hard work too.
thank you, i don't know why my link didn't work
This article makes me both excited, and uncomfortable... I knew Mark's success with The Edge of Sleep was going to change things, but now I'm worried that this will start a new expectation that a creative project can be marketed for free but a fan base. I don't think that's what Mark intended, but that's what happened because of what Amazon and Qcode did in terms of not advertising.

At the same time, I'm excited, because this really could change how grass roots creators interact with the bigger industry. It won't only open doors for Mark to be able to create his own projects and still get them onto streaming services and into theaters, it could do the same for many other independent creators!
Does the article condemn him in anyway or is it just a bad choice of words for the title
First of all it’s a bad headline regardless. Secondly, they don’t at all explain the “without permission” aspect. They could’ve made a headline that conveyed the fact he defied odds and didn’t take a typical route, but they instead made it seem like he went against rules in someway lol.

It’s a positive article for sure, but that doesn’t make it a golden standard of journalism… it even misattributes the podcast to being Mark’s creation. Maybe I’m just expecting too much but I feel a writer for Forbes should be getting things right and not making weird clickbait headlines. Shout out to the writer for making it a positive piece at least
THANK YOU. So many people taking this title at face value, even including people that also read the article and not just the title...
Thank you for explaining :') been looking for the link but I think the comment has been buried by now, cuz I can't find it
The headline itself is odd lol you can get offended on behalf of the author all you want but that’s just people’s opinion. I’m glad the article is positive but “without permission” is just weird to me idk what to tell you jabroni
Exactly. But why use that picture for an article about a recent thing then?
"season 3" is going to be a 90 minute (?) movie instead of a season of episodes
The interview?
All the lack of reading comprehension makes me feel like I’m on Tumblr.
Yeah and each one is gonna have the looming question of whether it did well on its own or bc the cult like fanbase keeps faking the numbers, literally look at this headline, its not about mark being in a good show, it's about the shows numbers 

And it'll be your faults 

And I'll be here to laugh and yell I told you so when it does
That would explain all the orange dust all over the letter
P.P.S: Because I am.
Because he's always close
The author is an agent/investor/ceo that works with other youtube creatives so I think he’s on Mark’s side. Trying to get business investors to pay attention. It’s Forbes, it’s a business magazine. Attention grabbing, aggressive headlines are kind of the norm
I do think it's strange you can't find the show on nbcs site anymore. I have tried. Might be missing something but it says it's no longer available. Probably made someone mad in the industry.
What you're missing is that that's the point.  You're assuming that it's an attack on Mark, when the headline is meant to be an indictment of the people Mark is fighting *against*.

That's the working idea here, and I'm confused why you have an issue with it. Because it cuts to exactly the problem Markiplier has openly talked about: that the executives in charge of the industry he is trying to break into **don't want him there**.  They are gatekeeping him with these requirements.  The whole "busted through without permission" is referencing that.
Yea i don't know why they credited it as marks story only. That line should of credited Jake and Willie as the creators of the podcast and that mark also starred in it. Or something along those lines.

Either way though I know the important thing is that content creators like mark are finally gonna get the attention of people who keep dismissing them simply because they're content creators. And that it'll help everyone in the creative space even if just a little bit.
You accidentally included extra text inside the brackets that wasn't part of the link - I'm guessing the method you used to copy the URL also copied the article title and didn't tell you <3
I figured it was actually more like "damn, look at the balls on this guy (Mark)! He's making moves!"

In other words, I thought the connotation was much more positive than what others are seeing.
He produced the podcast and stars in it. The article is about him specifically because the writer believes the show was able to become as popular as it did because of the influence of internet personalities and their respective communities. They aren’t writing a review about the show itself and aren’t trying to congratulate everyone involved with its production or that of the original podcast. They are talking about these things only as they pertain to Mark and his involvement.

Actors who take roles in films constantly have those films referred to as “theirs” in colloquial English, let alone producers. You don’t need to name every single other member of the production team in the same breath every time. 

Regardless, the crux of the article is that there are industry “gatekeepers”. Media giants that collectively control nearly all the content that makes its way to general audiences, be they the streaming giants or Hollywood studios. 

Typically for any TV or film project to be able to reach a wide audience they would need to navigate the avenues of these giants’ restrictions and requirements, have to make something that first appeals to a board of execs or established producers before they could hope to get it in any top ten list. It is very rare for truly independent filmmakers to perform as well as the material made by and endorsed by these existing controlling parties. 

The article is pointing out that with the influence of internet celebrities like Mark, this typical process can be ignored. Therefore breaking the “rules” of media production as they stand today.
It's not a bad headline in the slightest.  Mark **did** go against the rules. That is the entire point.  He himself has talked about that.
Yeah shame on them for you not reading the article
I mean I read the article too. Unfortunately I still stand by my statement. He used a system that was designed to help self publish. He used it for what it was intended for. The statement without permission doesn't apply here. It just seems like an odd saying. From what I have read I definitely think it is a good article and isn't a bash at all. That being said the choice of title seems odd and derogative again Even if that wasn't the intention of the title.
you come in guns blazing talking about how "atrocious" the state of journalism is when you can't even understand a 10 word sentence. No one here is offended but you. but sure "jabroni" tell us how weird this title is. I'm sure you're an expert on it
No idea. Maybe they wanted an interview type photo rather than the usual Mark acting like a lunatic photo. 😂😂😂
That. It was pretty much an open secret that they wanted to cancel the show, and from what we gathered in recent days, the allegations against Gaiman gave them an excuse to go ahead and do it. Several key production members went out on a limb to at least give us the single episode for resolution.
oh, no. probably YouTube
Old man yells at cloud moment
The numbers weren't artificially inflated though. People did watch it. All Amazon cares about is the analytics, they can tell when people watched it the first time and when people watched it on repeat. All Amazon cares about is advertising dollars, which is why they want eyes on the show. They don't care what eyes are on that show as long as they're seeing ads, which makes Amazon money.
The other shows won't have that fan base, they'll be allowed to be made and won't need anyone pushing their numbers up. 

What is our faults? That other creators will have the options to have their shows made? You really think any of them are going to give a sht for their show to be allowed to be made people got a little crazy? No they're going to be grateful that people wanted to see that type of content so badly
P.p.s.s I'm not a masochist
I really do think we are watching history be made though. First time someone has come this far. It's very amazing.
I was actually trying to find you show last night because I had 2 more episodes to watch and I tried looking for it EVERYWHERE on Amazon before actually manually typing it in and I couldn't find it, it as if someone doesn't even want people to know it exists
Your correct I was stating the fact that journalism does this. The title could imply something completely different but you make a good point. We both are saying the same thing.  I said it feels like it was a passive aggressive comment not that it is. That's purely my opinion. But your right it could be an overreaction on my part. I just said my take on it. Which is neither fact nor truth. Thanks for bringing up additional insight though.
oh i see. it did do that! thank you <3
Mark did not produce the podcast but simply just stars in it. QCODE produced the podcast.
Maybe I missed something but from what I’ve seen, they simply put the show on prime due to its self publishing feature. What rules did he go against? Other than “unwritten rules” of how to go about making a TV show, I don’t see how it makes sense. If the author meant that, then I apologize for not understanding!
Again, the headline can warrant criticism separate from the piece lol it’s what we all see first and I didn’t even see the article link until later. My criticism and OP’s uncertainty is valid. The article is positive which is good and appreciated, but it still is an odd headline and I don’t see how it’s at all debatable that journalism is in an atrocious state
Once again as stated up front I am merely speaking an opinion and not a fact. As far as educated responses go I do not do biased comments. I posted the comment above after reading the article through. Then simply stating my opinion and my thoughts on it which everyone does after reading something.
How was I “guns blazing” when I just thought it was an odd headline lol not my fault my comment has been upvoted a lot which in turn has pissed off people like you for some reason? And I never claimed to be an expert but I spent 4 years of my life and put myself over 50k in debt to study media lol it’s a little annoying for randos to call me and people who share the same opinion “illiterate” and the like over something so dumb
So people repeatedly playing the show over and over and over in the background isn't inflating the numbers? 

Hmm?
"PPPPS Don't look at my smash or pass history"
https://qcodemedia.com/theedgeofsleep.

“Starring and produced by Markiplier. Created by Jake Emanuel & Willie Block.”
It's not. Again, on the back end Amazon can see whether or not someone has watched a show before, but it doesn't matter all that much. If someone watches the series 10 times, they've seen a consistent amount of ads that whole time. Say you see one ad per episode. If you watch the series 10 times, you have seen 60 ads. The proportion of ads doesn't change the longer you've watched it or the more times you've watched it. That's literally the one metric Amazon cares about. They make their money by selling ad space and getting those ads in front of eyes. Companies want their ads in front of people's eyes, and if anything the same person seeing it multiple times is a boon to them because it makes that person more likely to remember their company or service. That is what a value to them, and that is what determines success in the eyes of Amazon itself.
i watched it twice, once by myself and once streaming it to my partner over my discord. and people do watch it more than once because they genuinely like it
“PPPPPS I just wanna see if my body can take it”
Ah shit I’m thinking about the show that’s my b
There's a difference between watching ir a couple of times and having it play repeatedly over and over and over again, like people in this sub have said they have done 

If nobody can understand how this can possibly harm the very thing you are trying to get taken seriously, then go off I guess
"PSPSPSPS- oops, I alerted all the cats. I'll get back to you later."
DONT STOP NOW!!!!
TEOS IS CURRENTLY #4 IN TV SHOWS IN THE US AND #5 IN THE ENTIRE US INCLUDING MOVIES!
Hello! Thanks for posting. This is a reminder about the rules. Make sure the post is appropriate and not to delegate or go against Reddit policy or r/Markiplier Rules. If this does break rules, please report it immediately. Posts that encourage raids on other subs or platforms is a bannable offense.

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/Markiplier) if you have any questions or concerns.*
I just got done watching the show and it was at #5 when I started. Let's gooooo
Absolutely wild watching this happen in real time, keep it up people. I wonder what is going through the heads of the higher ups that made the deal with Mark right now.
😭 Its so infuriating that they made it unavailable to 90% of audiences despite giving him that challenge.
LETS GOOOOO

WE ARE GONNA HIT TOP THREEEEEE
I thought it came out in 2 days! Running to my living room right tf nowwwww
Keep edging!!!
VOX MACHINA CANT EVEN DEFEAT MARKIPLIER’S MILITARY!!! KEEP MARCHING!
Imagine we get it to #1 without any proper advertisement
#4 with no marketing whatsoever. We’re such an amazing community and I’m proud to be apart of it. Mark and the team made such an amazing show as well and it deserves to be at #1
What are we all doing here? Keep watching the show!
This is why Mark laughed when they said top 10. Currently watching it myself.
Never stop never stopping
GO NO STOP
CONTINUE THE SLEEDGE!!!
FORWARD FELLOW PLIERS
EDGE NO SLEEP! EDGE NO SLEEP! EDGE NO SLEEP!
EDGE SO HARD
GOOOOO NOOOOOO STOOOOOPPPPP!!!! ONWARDS PEOPLE. I believe we can do it. Im so gosh dang proud of us!!!
YESSSS!!! We've conquered the VOX—just three more till the summit!!!!  
Breach the CITADEL, topple the KING and the RINGS will surely be ours!

# #1 here we come!
It's definitely not the best film. But the story was actually very interesting.
GO NO STOP! WE GOT THIS YALL
AHHH I LOVE YOU GUYS
Vox machina spotted let's goooooooo
I need to see it! But it's not on czech prime. Whyyyy
We're doing it, Peter. We're doing it
Let's keep on going!!
GOING FOR #1!!!
GO! NO STOP! EDGING!
Just finished watching 🙌🏻
Um it was #7 last I checked. Like an hour ago 🤔 are these legit?
Still waiting for it in Canada
I am just happy how good it is and how happy Mark will be now 😁🥰
GO NO STOP
It had to be prime.... fine, some time today or tommorrow when I'm off work, I'll try to contribute and go for prime.. hope I'm not too late...
I’m able to watch it outside the US using nord VPN
WHEN IS THIS OUT THE UK?!? PLS?!?
I wish I could watch but I don’t have a credit card to sign up for prime 🥲
I’m gonna need a VPN
I just wish it was available outside the US.
If we can't beat, are you smarter than a celebrity or tulsa king, what the heck are we even doing?
Go no stop go no stop go no stop
GO NO STOP!
Full opinion after watching the show (with having listened to the audio drama at least 4 times LOL): 

All in all, a great piece of film. But not without its flaws

To look to the positive first, all of the cinematography in this show was absolutely gorgeous. You can definitely tell what Mark was going for, making sure the shots lined up with the characters mindset and emotions. Along with this, the editing and style choice were fantastic. From an artistic standpoint, it was phenomenal 

But if we’re looking for the characteristics of a captivating piece of FILM, thats a different story 

One of the main reasons I loved the audio drama so much was because of the incredible pacing throughout the entire story. Im gonna give Mark the benefit of the doubt and chalk it up to him having a certain budget, because the main plot points of the story were EXTREMELY rushed. 

What happened to Lindas whole experience in the hospital? I feel like that trope and POV of her character would have explained a lot of her bluntness and dread that her actor was (trying) to conjure up. A lot of these character are established because, we, as Marks fans, already know the story line. But for other people…it seems that the audience was just supposed to accept the dramatic environment, without enough information in the dialogue/scenes to make that conclusion. 

Along with this, why did the entire plot point and character of the Kidnapper in the parking lot COMPLETELY disappear? In the audio drama, that was a perfect way to foundation Matteos role in the Army, as he was disrespected by the Kidnapper by lying about being a veteran. In the show, it’s all just vague inputs about his “tours” and “military life” that make his character another shallow adaptation of a “traumatized veteran”.  And if we just kept this character, there would have been no reason to introduce Ruth, a poor attempt for more drama to be introduced.  


WHAT HAPPENED TO THE MOOBLES TROPE???????????
I WAS SO EXCITED FOR THAT AND IT JUST DIDNT HAPPEN????
Again, this show was trying to introduce drama and be dramatic, WITH NOTHING BEING DEVELOPED. The Moobies trope was the PERFECT way to showcase Daves parasomnia and how it affected him even after he thought it got better. Again, the audio drama was INCREDIBLE at developing these characters, while the show just…assumed you listened to the audio drama beforehand 😭😭😭

Lowkey theres a lot more I wanna say, but my lunch is almost over 💀
Stoping not, go watch
NO STOP GO!
IM EDGING ALL DAY ALL NIGHT
What's it about? I haven't gotten around to looking at stuff about it yet
Its not available in my country yet for some reason
GO NO STOP!!!!!!!!!!!!!! HOPE Mark is happy 😁🥰
GO NO STOP! Just finished the show and it was really good. I have the opening song in my head on repeat and it’s nice 😊
In Australia I cannot watchê 😔
THE PLAN!!!!!
We're not gonna waste our shot.
GO NO STOP
Let's Goooo! NUMBER 1!💥
I don't have time until this weekend to watch so I put it on last night and went to bed. I plan to put it on and go to work.

Doesn't Amazon know we are crazy people from online who RIG polls on websites to get trolly answers.
Im having such good time...
Keep going Markimoo fans, don't stop now
I thought the movie was great! Watched it before was even up on the top. ALSO anyone else get slight Coraline vibes???
Managed to watch it yesterday... But now it's not appearing... (I'm a UK viewer, but set VPN to US...) its not in the search AT ALL... Any ideas?
The special effects were amazing, the show itself 6.5/10 

Story was pretty good with a lot of good ideas.

I found Katie annoying and Mark did ok. Doc lady was also ok.

Matteo on the other hand carried this movie a lot!
I was just about to post this screenshot lol, I’m going to get the free trial and watch tonight!
GO NO STOP!
Well, it's not available in the UK. That's sad.
With such an success, and we can still do better, I can't wait for iron lung to break even more records
GO NO STOP BY THE POWER OF GO NO STOP YOU WILL BE NUMBER ONE!!!!!!
If only I had Prime.
GO NO STOP
GO NO STOP
I'm gonna be a very angry lady if it isn't available in canada TOMORROW!!!
Now bring it to Canada dawg please
Yahhhooo! Go no stop to number one!
Never underestimate the power of people!!! We love ya Mark, and have always believed in you!!🩵🩵
It's not available in Australia😭😭😭
*sees two buttons: make Vox Machina the highest viewed Prime show, or make Edge of Sleep highest viewed Prime show*
*Me: Superhero sweating meme*
LETS GOOOO (i REALLY need to watch ts)
Citadel Diana passed us again, don't lose steam!! Let's go!
GO NO STOP! GO NO STOP! GO NO STOP! GO NO STOP!!!!!!!!!!
Ive watched it twice “I’m doing my part!”
Go no stop
I guarantee that the higher ups people are going to be absolutely flabbergasted that the show managed to reach the top 5 in under 24 hours without any advertising or marketing whatsoever
Can someone please explain to me the premise of this?
Hey Amazon Prime, ARE YOU CLOSE?! ARE YOU CLOSE?!
So happy to be able to pay back in just a small part all of the happiness Mark has brought us over the years ☺️
GO NO STOP!!!!
GO NO STOP
I was honestly surprised how good it was I was captivated when I watched 4 episodes in a row and I'm gonna watch it again with my girlfriend.
I'm one of those people who didn't even know about the podcast, so this was a whole new story for me. It is pretty good and for being low budget they found really good locations. It's a pretty solid 8.5 for me, that may change on a rewatch because I definitely need to.
Watched it with not even on the board, took a thirty minutes nap and it was in 7 yesterday
Next stop, Tulsa King. We're coming for you Sylvester Stallone
Give it up for Day 3 of me doing the edge and not sleeping. DAY 3 GIVE IT UP FOR DAYY 3.
I don't know why Amazon people thought Mark's movie not gonna generate any traffic when we broke a website (for god's sake) for Mark's tasteful nudes on release day. I remember him taking about it.
We're back to #5
Let’s get it to #3 people!
GO NO STOP
Sitting here waiting for it to even be available in Canada and it's already in the top 5 :(
PLSSS I DONT HAVE PRIME 😭😭😭 is there absolutely nowhere else to watch this????
The show was amazing
*********STAY AWAKE!!!*********

*********GO. NO. STOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOP!!!!!*********
*best Patrick star impression* Pushhhhhhhhh!
GO NO STOP GO NO STOP
Anyone know how to watch this in the uk? 
I'm prime subbed. Tried a VPN and Prime video knew straight away I was using a VPN and refused to play :(
GO NO STOP!!!!!
Ain't no way he passed both Vox Machina and The Boys.
i just binged the entire thing last night, it was pretty good! i hope they let him release iron lung, i’m really excited for it
Just please god make him thank  Beyoncé 😭😭😭😭
We need No.1, 36+million subs takes you places lol
Where can I watch it
[deleted]
Not out in sweden tho :(
Continue our march! We march for Mark-cragge!
I can’t watch it. It’s not available in the eu for some reason
How are you guys seeing this ?? On my prime app it still says it's #7 ??
GO NO STOP
I watched it last night and will be watching it again with a friend tomorrow. 

WE RIDE FOR MARKIMOO!
Let's gooooooo
GO NO STOP
Maybe if it was AVAILABLE IN THE UK?!?!… it would be higher
i binge watched the whole damn series last night. wish there was more 😅
Where do i watch this I’m in singa
Wish I could watch it in aus 😭😭
Is it also available in Canada?
Almost done with my second watch through!!
It doesn't seem to be available in the UK? 🥺
I watched episode 1.. I think I'm okay
Not on prime in Canada yet, maybe worldwide on the 18th?
[deleted]
Its currently #5 overall on prime (tv shows And movies) but #4 for tv shows!
Was it any good?
What did you think of the show? I also finished it
probably thinking that Mark has a cult lol.
they are thinking they saved millions on advertising when the fans will do the advertisements for them. keep watching guys, no go stop or something
And still beating their expectations by a landslide
For real. What was amazon thinking limiting it to 1 country? Mark has viewers from all around the world! I'm from Austria and I want to watch it 😭 I've been watching him since before I even fully knew English
nah we getting him to NUMBER ONE
We all did. THE BAMBOOZLING ENDS NOW!
Also nice nips
Aww it’s not on my Prime for the U.K…
Keep edging on the edge
GONOSTOP!!
GO NO STOP!
Didn't he film this back in 2021? He's probably a better actor 3 years later. I can't wait for Iron Lung 
Or UKs...🥲
Or anywhere else except the US
yes. if you have the app on your phone you can check yourself.
tomorrow most likely!!
Only US for now, maybe more later?
I'm thinking they told him the 18th because that will be the global release and the US just got it early. I can't confirm that but it makes sense and I've seen other people talking about it coming the 18th.
Nord VPN
*GO NO STOP BY THE*

*POWER OF GO NO STOP YOU*

*WILL BE NUMBER ONE!!!!!!*

\- Kawaii-Stoner-Kitten

---

^(I detect haikus. And sometimes, successfully.) ^[Learn&#32;more&#32;about&#32;me.](https://www.reddit.com/r/haikusbot/)

^(Opt out of replies: "haikusbot opt out" | Delete my comment: "haikusbot delete")
Keep going, get jiggy with it and codster, Mike!
Pore
You know your girl has EoS on repeat! Must edge, no sleep. GO! NO STOP! GO!
I’m doing my part. Literally have had it playing nonstop since yesterday morning lol. 
I wish there was a way to loop it, I leave the tv on for my cats when I go to work, I’d just let it play over and over.
So I can just play it in background , so it keeps ranking up ??
This is why im on my 4th watch now 👍🏻 go no stop
I've had it playing on my TV while I'm in my office. My dogs are used to watching Markiplier so they're enjoying it too lol
So your telling me I can mute it & let it play on loop on Friday (I'm Canadian)
My friend, who had no knowledge from before and is not following mark, watched it with me and she really enjoyed it. So not just for followers of mark.
it was brilliant
It's a decent story, bad acting and voice dubs in some parts. It's fairly well polished but it's for fans of marks.
I thought it was really good. I think the whole premise about being haunted by somthing in your dreams is a unique idea. 
Also It's been cool to see Mark's acting improve over the years.
I mean...

He does.

Don't you make blood sacrifices at your Markiplier altar? That was where he got all the blood for Iron Lung.

/S
*Ticking clock and chanting noises.*
Duh We are
That sounds like a cool cult! The leader owns 5 ovens!
in reality we actually worship Chica
We literally got his podcast to #1 on Spotify and Apple music to see his cock. Yeah, we're a cult.
I mean, unless things have been misrepresented to Mark, or to us by Mark, they (nonspecific-they) still contractually need to do marketing.
Thats what I'm so glad about lmaoo that despite them releasing it like... nowhere that the people there are still getting it close to #1
Samee I'm British, you would've thought that after this long they'd release it somewhere other than the US....
Rights and distribution.
Russia is here too) It took a while, but I got access to amazon prime. It was so fun to watch “the Edge of Sleep”, I really don't regret the time it took to find a good VPN)
Go No Stop!!! (Also I love your username 😂)
NUMBER ONE
GDIT MARK HOW COULD YOU BETRAY US THIS WAYYYY
😭 it doesn't work on my phone unfortunately. It crashes endlessly
Huh?! Must what?!
Your poor inbox
[deleted]
Edge dropped at literally the worst time for me to sit down and absorb anything, so I've been streaming it on mute in a separate tab every chance I get.
Haven’t watched it yet but, isn’t that premise just nightmare on Elm Street?
/S  
  
i'm just gonna double back you up on that "/S"

...cause, you know...(J. J. Abrams & Doug Dorst are about to be mad confused when they hear the truth about all this) S.   
..../S
Yeahhh!! GO NO STOP ! You don't know the *JENIOUS* of Mark !!! *.*
Y’all remember those Markiplier pet rocks from a while back? Pretty sure they consume blood sacrifices
The Marki-Altar
Yeah it's really annoying, and I simply can't imagine a reasonable justification. Maybe they thought it wasn't gonna be very relevant? I guess they still don't believe that youtubers can do just as good as big hollywood productions. Which seems like an outdated mindset to me. I mean look at In Space with Markiplier... one of the best things I've ever seen, certainly better than 99% of modern big corporate movies
Vpn is your friend. I too am uk based and have watched it twice
yessss and thank you!
mark didnt. amazon prime fucked him over. watch the new video "the plan has changed"
You have to sledge! As mark says it. Sleep edge everyday!
Oh don’t worry I haven’t muted at all. Tab or player. I’ve been listening to it all day. I’ll be able to quote it soon lol. 
Ya know, for a minute I for got that Nightmare on Elm Street existed lol but Edge of Sleep isn't a copy paste of Nightmare, it's execution of the the premis is different.
THE JUNYUS OF MARK
Rights and distribution. It's not hard to understand why
Australia here, literally finished watching it 10 minutes ago. Its fantastic
Any free VPNs? Im at university, im not paying for a service lol
Well in the video mark said he doesn’t think it’s a conspiracy… maybe. But he is like someone fucked up in general. The people he has talked to didn’t know it happened and didn’t expect people to find it
Yeah f those guys no marketing no nothing , still on top , we Jenius we GO NO STOP !!!!!!!!
Alright, if you say so
I already can 😭🤣
Literally me 😂 i enjoy every second of it over and over and over and over.....
I watched it now and I see what you mean, definitely not a copy. It almost felt like a resident evil twist of the dream premise which definitely is unique
If that was really the reason, why was it implied that it would be internationally released if it was successful enough? To me it sounds like they had doubts about the success of the project, so they held back on making it a bigger thing until they were sure it would be worth it
Privado vpn gives you 10 gb a month free (it’s hard to spot on sign up website and free options are greyed out to look un-clickable but they are) that’s been enough for me to watch it twice
even if he did know who did it, he wont be able to tell that information right. and we already know the bias hollywood has against the youtubers. is it a reach to think that this might be deliberate?
Well Mark said they can’t move the marketing up. All the marketing and advertisements will be released on the 18th. It was a accident that they released the show early but the marketing probably wasn’t fully done. Marketing comes out on the 18th
Exactly. They aren't going to purchase international rights and distribution if they have a bomb
Oh cool thanks!!
Could be. Could also not be. Lots of actors have talked positively about youtubers or become YouTubers as well they have started to make cameo’s in movies/shows and YouTube series are being adapted into YouTube
Yeah and we're back to my original point. They wouldn't have these doubts if it was a big time hollywood type of production. So despite the fact that Mark has proven what him and his fanbase can do multiple times in the past, they don't trust him and us enough to make his project available to all of his fans. Because he's "just a youtuber"

Edit It seems I was blocked...
Guess we'll never know
Bud, why would they expect his fans that get free content to pay for a new service. They don't know that his base will carry over to their platform. You are just being obtuse at this point. Get blocked
Because the reality is that though mark is popular in terms of worldwide distribution costs/rights he’s small fry. This isn’t a shiny big budget production with mass appeal, and yes there’s a load of hype right now in the fan base streaming companies also know that attention (especially in YouTube audiences) shifts quickly. There’s not a lot of chance this will get to number 1 and 0 chance it will stay there as even the most die hard fans are not going to keep watching it over and over forever. 
There’s no conspiracy here, Amazon want it to succeed because it makes them money which is why they’ve bought it, it’s a fun show but we can’t pretend this is some ring of fire level production. It’s just not that big a deal
MY GOOD MEN
we need to bombard the edge of sleep with views, we need to charge like the avengers on the 18th, loop it on every device you have, blast it out your windows, tell everyone, you need to get MAAAD, CHARGE, MEN, WE RIDE AT DAWN
Hello! Thanks for posting. This is a reminder about the rules. Make sure the post is appropriate and not to delegate or go against Reddit policy or r/Markiplier Rules. If this does break rules, please report it immediately. Posts that encourage raids on other subs or platforms is a bannable offense.

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/Markiplier) if you have any questions or concerns.*
He said the 18th of this month, right? Wonder where we get to watch it
https://www.newregency.com/mobile/international-sales/movies/the-edge-of-sleep
He looks like Wade when they play Uno
What happened?
I find it hilarious that Mark was so confident about this. He knows we're gonna cause the servers to just shut down for hours. Let's break a whole streaming platform with our loyalty! lol
WOOOOO YEAH BABY THIS IS WHAT IM TALKING ABOUT
Edge of sleep, edge of sleep, edge of sleep, edge of sleep, edge of sleep, edge of sleep, edge of sleep, edge of sleep, edge of sleep, edge of sleep, edge of sleep
Taking all bets for Amazon prime
Can someone explain what Edge of Sleep is? The new video is the first I'm hearing of it. I know Mark's been working on Iron Lung for a while but this just completely passed me by.
i was reading a post yesterday about how edge of sleep probably won't come out and NOW IT'S COMING OUT
WE RIDE… as soon as we know where we’re going… WE WILL RIIIDE
I don’t know if it is true but on IMDb it showed me that it will come out on prime. Again, don’t know if that is true but it is a possibility.
Im r/outoftheloop. What’s this?
Stay awake
How long has this been in development? Is this from when he went to Canada? Either way I'm for sure going to tune in.
BRUH ILL BE UP ON A MOUNTAIN AAAAAAA
AAAHHHH!!! I'M SO EXCITED!!😆
20th Century Studios (Fox) owns New Regency.
Disney owns Fox, so most likely this will be released in Disney+. At least in the US, LATAM usually follows the same releases.
Im so exited for Iron Lung, we absolutely have to blow this show up
I don’t think it’ll be on Netflix. If it were it would be in the “Coming Soon” section right?
AHH IM SO EXCITED TO DO THIS (Ive been listening to the podcast over and over)
Os it a reimagining of the podcast, a part two, or smth different?
it better not be on one of the very few streaming services that I don't have imma be so mad
I remember listening to the audio Story of the edge of sleep a few years ago, really great experience
WE RIDE
i can literally hear his scream
There's a comment on the imdb page for the show that says Amazon prime for the service
I really hope it’s prime. Because I no longer have netflix. I will pay for a month of Netflix if necessary though.
Got lowkey traumatised listening to the story when it came out. Cant imagine how horrofying it will be in live action. But i will brace my fear. I will do it for Mark!!!
We need to crash whatever website the edge if sleep is streamed on.
I’m gonna guess it will be on Apple TV+ or Prime.
LETS DO ITTTT
So wild bc I randomly decided to restart The Edge of Sleep on my morning walk today and I’m JUST NOW seeing Mark’s video🫨
YEAH!!!!!!!!
FINALLY I thought i was going crazy for like 2 years
We bout to be eatin good
HELLO EVERYBODY, HIS NAME IS MARKIPLIER AND WE’RE WATCHING EDGE OF SLEEP
Can't wait
Hey guys Mark said this would drop on the 14th right? Did he mean the trailer or the full show?
Edge
Okay so top contenders for the platform are netflix, prime  tv, and apple tv. Do we know if mark uses apple products??
I'm so fucken excited for this but I was not emotionally prepared to *see* Mark so distraught, as someone who has cried every time he cries on camera 

This show is gonna wreck me
Egding..
July 1st... It's a beautiful day.. birds are chirping..
Hell yeah!!!
“Edge”
Its up rn on amazon prime! #4! Lets get it to the top and keep it there for the month!!! GO NO STOP GO!!
Edit: i live in Canada, i can not watch this show
Its extremely suspicious to me that Mark isnt allowed to say what streaming service Edge of Sleep is on

Like...why wont they let him? This sounds like Mark is being scammed
I want news about iron lung:(
I don’t get why he has to promote this show before he can get his own movie out. The way he said “open doors” it sounds like a publisher is using him to promote some other project. The video just had a weird uncomfortable vibe like he’s forced to do this
but its already released wdym ?? is it a movie or a tv series ?
looking at edge of sleep season 1, probably apple podcast and spotify. i think spotify is the one that rly matters.
Wait wait I  haven’t watched the video is it a movie or is it part 2 of the podcast???
I like how they credit him as Markiplier, not his actual name.
Edge of Sleep is confirmed and releasing, we just don't know which platform.

If Edge of Sleep can get Top 10 ??? Then more doors will open, presumably to Iron Lung or some other series.
MARK HAS DOTH POSTED OF COURSE! THYETH MUST WATCH THE VIDEO!
His whole M.O. since the beginning of his cinema career has been proving people wrong, this is totally par for the course at this rate.
Im also put all my black chips on prime
"Synopsis

When a night watchman finishes his shift at work, he is terrified to discover that everyone in the world who went to sleep the previous night has died. Now he and a band of survivors must stay awake and uncover the secret of this global epidemic, before they fall asleep." 
 [Credit](https://www.newregency.com/mobile/international-sales/movies/the-edge-of-sleep)

If you're into audio books I would check out the podcast to get an idea of if you'll be into it.
it was originally an audiobook type movie written by Jake Emanuel and Willie Block. mark voiced the main character. these people have been working a long while on making it into a tv series and now its finally happening. they also have a book out.
I think we read the same post lmao
prime is my bet
It’s the TV show he was working/acting on in 2020. It’s based on the horror podcast/audiobook he voice acted on by the same name.
Since 2020 I believe..
WATCH IT ANYWAY
For non-Disney Disney stuff, they usually use Hulu which they own also, so that's my guess.
I'm wondering this as well
cant trust that source, anyone can put anything
the full show is dropping on the 18th
Didnt he start Edge of Sleep before Iron Lung?
Its a tv series
It's a TV show though. Spotify doesn't do TV shows does it? 
Tv show on a  mystery streaming service as Mark couldn’t state which one as of yet.
Amazon prime! Tv mini series!  Already #4 within 24 hrs of him posting his “change of plans” video
It's his stage name. Lots of actors have them.

* Lady Gaga: Stefani Joanne Angelina Germanotta

* Vin Diesel: Mark Sinclair

* Joaquin Phoenix: Joaquin Rafael Bottom

* Michael Caine: Maurice Micklewhite

* Jack Black: Thomas Jacob Black

And many, many  more.
In the Edge of Sleep podcast story they credited his real name tho
okayyyy roulx kaard ate
FYI I checked on what TV shows Regency has done in the last few years and they tend to go to prime, but not exclusively prime. We'll see!
Huh interesting. Do we know how long he's been working on it?
And his VA is really good.
so is it gonna be a multiple episode show?? or one movie??
The book is honestly even better than the podcast and i really hope they pull more from the book than the podcast
I WANT TO BUT ITS HIGH ALTITUDE, LIKE NO SIGNAL HIGH ALTITUDE 


I might indoctrinate some friends tho.

Hopefully whichever platform it released on would make it global and none of that region locked bullshit
That's a good guess.
I think Hulu isn't as widespread outside the US.
Not really used in Latam, so I hope is not exclusive
but the released is a talk show so its not the full thing the up comming one is a thriller tv series right ?
my bad dawg i misinterpreted it then. i thought it was like what season 1 was.
It does do video podcasts actually.

Funny enough I was able to watch a leaked upload of Don't Hug Me I'm Scared (the British TV show version) literally on Spotify. You can just listen to it too, but on PC you can watch it in all its glory.
Oh my god. I remember seeing a post on this sub like a day or two ago saying that EoS is never going to happen and that they were heartbroken. I’m hyped now
It may not have been related, but I got an HBO Max ad before the video.
Just listened to the podcast for the first time very cool
lol yeah I got that now. Thanks!
Joaquin’s last name is BOTTOM?!
Maurice Micklewhite
Its not his project, he got offerd the part because he's really big on youtube. People (mostly markiplier fans) enjoyed the audio book so much that it got it so popular that the creators decided to make it a show or movie instead of an audio series
Supposedly a year, last I heard it was supposed to come out 2022 then postponed to 2023. So at least 4 years
he's in the cast if we can get it in top 10 we get the iron lung movie
He filmed Edge of Sleep immediately before he filmed In Space with Markiplier.  It got stuck in Distribution/Production Hell for a LONG time.
Multiple episodes! It's gonna be awesome
Yeah Hulu actually does a Top 15, so I don't think I'm right after all 😅
It is a live action TV show.  The podcast is not a talk show. It is a radio, drama or audio drama.  A talk show is something more like Conan O'Brien or even The view.   Podcast is an audio drama and this will be a live action TV series
I don’t think you understand, this is going to be a mainstream show, as such it’s going to be on a mainstream platform. Most people think prime video.
Probably unrelated. Max tends to go pretty ham with advertising its original shows before releasing them. I get the feeling it might be Apple TV since Edge of Sleep is like the second most popular story podcast on Apple Podcasts. Idk if it has a top 10 feature tho.
Very excited for this
Phoenix is legally his last name. His parents changed all of their last names from Bottom to Phoenix after going through a big move or something
According to the list I found on IMDb, apparently yes. [link](https://www.imdb.com/list/ls096456059/)
My knee jerk reaction exactly my friend 😂
I was gonna say, he was in Vancouver filming this a HOT minute ago. I wonder why it was so delayed
oh in imdb theres 2 of them and one it says mystery and talkshow the other one is un rated so that one is the upcoming one right ? sorry i was confused
Nope, guess I didn't! My bad! Downvotes were warranted. 😅
Ughhh if I have to temporarily get an apple TV sub to watch EoS I will, but UGHHH
When they got out of the cult they were in?
Yeah, I'm hoping it's not that. I'll get it and then cancel afterwards, I guess.
I think that was about the same time but it's been a while since I read about it
