Previously unknown waltz by Chopin found in a New York museum
NYT story: https://www.nytimes.com/2024/10/27/arts/music/chopin-waltz-discovery.html#

And a performance by Lang Lang: https://www.nytimes.com/video/arts/music/100000009784202/chopin-waltz-lang-lang.html

Really happy to have woken up to this news!


Edit: You can see a scan of the original manuscript [here](https://www.themorgan.org/music/manuscript/452191/1)
Wow we got a new Chopin piece before GTA6
Decent imo. Not head over heels for this. Tho it’s pretty crazy that we got a chopin piece in 2024.
Sounds more like one of the mazurkas.
Lang Lang is an accomplished pianist, but I don’t think this piece is really his style. Would be curious to hear other interpretations. 

Anyways, wonderful news. Unusual waltz for sure.
Amazing!!

Who gets to publish the sheet music I wonder, how do rights work in a case like this.
Doesn't really sounds like one of chopin's waltzes, it's too short and unusual. Maybe a mazurka like someone already said? 
And where can we get the sheet music? It's actually nice imo
Imagine how much music we would have from The Legends if they had computers and music software. 

I almost wonder if they would even be recognized as genius in today's world flooded by millions of talented musicians that you can find easily online
We got Mozart AND Chopin releasing new music before GTA 6
Chopin wasn’t gonna let Mozart have all the glory.
Damn, ended too soon!
A published version of the piece is now available on Musicnotes (notation slightly updated to modern engraving standards). 

[https://www.musicnotes.com/sheetmusic/mtd.asp?ppn=MN0294836](https://www.musicnotes.com/sheetmusic/mtd.asp?ppn=MN0294836)
To everyone saying this is more like a mazurka, I agree, but look at the end of the manuscript. It looks like there’s one extra note after the last measure, perhaps indicating that Chopin intended to continue with this piece but never did. Plus, I don’t think Chopin would’ve ended a piece with a repeat. That’s quite odd. I also don’t think he would write a waltz this short. His “minute” waltz is nearly three times as long as this (in measures, not time)
[I did my best to copy it.](https://musescore.com/user/38354609/scores/21446680) Let me know if you think it needs any revisions. Enjoy!
Super exciting!
Chopin dropped
First new Mozart, now new Chopin.... Cmon, when is Beethoven dropping?
This is the stuff I daydream about. “What if Schubert had some more years?” “What if Mozart…?”

And then this happens! Utter disappointment. This is not a masterpiece, not a rough gem, not even mediocre, but an unbalanced waltz that does not reflect the genius of some of the compositions we have of him. 

That’s OK, not every piece has to be a masterpiece. In a way, this brings peace of mind. I can daydream all about more work by my favorite composers, but we got the good stuff already. They published the good stuff themselves. This is just a side note.
And TES6
Incredible comment, lol.
Wake up babe, Chopin just dropped
And a Mozart piece too.
New Chopin before GTA6
that was my impression too

feels like a first draft of something. It sounds Chopin-ish, to be sure, but it also sounds like it needs more development...
When I heard it, I thought exactly that. With that interpretation, it sounds more like a Mazurka than a Waltz.
We need Garrick Ohlsson to play this.
I love Ben Laude’s playing

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zT7tGNzcBnY
Greg Niemczuk made an analysis video about it yesterday. I much prefer his interpretation to Lang Lang's:


https://youtu.be/RMOsJd2pTxQ
If the piece is old enough, everybody can publish it since the original manuscript will have entered the public domain

The annoying part is that we won't get to have any modern sheet music of it for free as it'll all be copyrighted, unlike the other pieces, previously published and now in the public domain

So we'll pretty much only have the original manuscript
You can look at the original manuscript [here](https://www.themorgan.org/music/manuscript/452191/1). Hopefully it’ll be published in modern sheet music soon, I’m looking forward to hearing other people’s interpretations of it
people have speculated that it was a short piece written for a fan as apparently thats something he used to do
*for
Beethoven in 2020
Apparently you haven't realized that one piece being discovered and published has nothing to do with other pieces being discovered and published
you’ve got a low bar for “incredible”
The dude don’t miss!!

https://youtube.com/shorts/UFgeBzootgM?si=3YuxRdQ96nq9eq30
Yeah, it's *very* short (only 24 bars) and sounds kind of fragmented, unlike his actual published pieces. The beginning is also very dissonant for what I'd expect from typical Chopin.
Depends. All you'd need is one person enscribing it and releasing it for free with a creative commons license to have a free modern sheet music version. Due to no copyright protections on the manuscript itself or the music that's on it, it shouldn't be difficult to do
But if the original manuscript was never published, has it even entered public domain? Does the clock start from date published or date composed?
I gave it a try [here](https://www.dropbox.com/scl/fo/e2fq5l6hub0oiz3i3uydi/AK8q064g7JMHI-60GASuhng?dl=0&e=1&preview=chopin_waltz.pdf&rlkey=c0wo25b7amsp2cm850w61bj9d&st=66z1g8my). I think the G♮ in measure 5 is supposed to be a G♯ like the previous measure (he maybe forgot the ♯).
https://clara.imslp.org/en/library/pdf?itemId=1730171208821-9D8055E0CB7867E6&anon=1
I would love it if chopin wrote me a piece lmao, this is so cute
Do you have a source for the claim that he used to do that? I'd love to read more about that.
Hell yeah.
Was pretty funny, to be fair. Wasn't expecting to see it in a piano forum.

https://knowyourmeme.com/memes/we-got-x-before-gta-6
We found the curmudgeon … before gta vi
I like the original version of this by dylan something its so funny
To me, it sounds more like what an AI would come up with. Dissonant start and fragmented, just like documents from AI.
Very true

It'd just be about keeping a safe constant access to it then
Chopin wrote it. He holds copyright. Anything he directly wrote and didn't sell the rights of is now in public domain.

Anything he would've sold publishing rights of would've made the publisher's version the copyright of the publisher but the piece itself copyright of chopin.

Copyright lasts till death of the author + 70 years (those 70 years to whoever inherited/bought the copyright)

That means that all of chopin's original manuscripts are in the public domain.

Publishing rights are more confusing, but since this piece was entirily unpublished and copyright has expired, there's no weird shit there
Wow, thank you!!
This is great
Nah no source it just seems to be the biggest idea from most people. I’m sure stuff will come out eventually
yeah because dissonances is only done by ai
Someone else posted a  link, you can download it here.

https://www.themorgan.org/music/manuscript/452191/1
Hostel roommate wants to fight over playing tiktoks in the middle of the night
This Persian guy is just the epitome of a selfish asshole all around. We are staying at a highly rated Guesthouse in Osaka and he's ruining the experience. He's a chronic smoker and loves blowing it in people's faces.

He plays tiktoks in the middle of night loud as can be and sees absolutely nothing wrong with it. When people confront him he doesn't do anything about it, going so far as to say he has headphones but doesn't use them. The host tell him to stop and he keeps doing it. Eventually on his check out morning at 7am he wakes everyone up again with and when asked why he thinks this is ok, he screams and says "Let's go right now" and tries to start a fight.

Unfortunately this was a Guesthouse and less of a major hostel so instead of kicking him out he so just told everyone to be patient and had the rest of us wait for him to leave.

Who starts a fight over something childish like this and takes it so personally?
Blowing smoke in someone's face is an easy way to a broken nose.
What’s funny (but not) about people like this is he DOESNT think he’s wrong. This story, to his friends, is about a house full of strangers who were assholes to him for no reason.

(Assuming this is true and isn’t the inverse story lol).
Absolute selfish behaviors. Japanese people are too polite. The cops would've been called in other countries.
Some really bizarre people travelling around Japan.

There was this guy in Tokyo who wanted to stop this guy next to his bed from snoring. So his solution was to bang as loud as he could against the wall with his fist. Didn't take long for him to be confronted lol.
The joy of being a traveller going around hostels is you don't need to stay more than one night in a bad place.

Just request a refund of any money for nights you haven't stayed and leave. I'm sure Osaka has dozens of very good hostels.
Talk to the hostel staff, preferably a few of you together so it adds weight to your argument.
They should then talk to the guy....
...if it continues after that, talk to the staff again...keep applying pressure until they do something
Reminds me or a time where I met a Libyan guy in a hostel who went straight to a fight when I asked him if he was the one who insisted the air conditioning remain off on a 40 degree day. Nutjob
Review the place accordingly. They don't care about their guests, lowest score from me. This is like basic shared accommodation stuff.

Personally, I have dealt with unruly guests in hostels, and I'd assure they are all talk and no action, but I understand others being less confrontational. However, the hostel needs to deal with this.
 What an absolute manchild. Who threatens violence over being asked to not blast videos in a shared room? He's lucky no one took him up on fighting, because disturbing everyone's sleep and personal space like that is a quick way to catch some hands. The entitlement is mind-boggling.

We've all had inconsiderate roommates, but this guy took it to another level. Glad he's gone, but what a nightmare story to remember Osaka by. 😪😪
[deleted]
expansion kiss murky languid different cause tan paint trees swim

 *This post was mass deleted and anonymized with [Redact](https://redact.dev)*
Was in a medium sized dorm in Australia with a German couple that had about the same level of concern for others. They were on the bunk above me. Snuggling, moving around and talking all night. In the morning they woke up at 5am, turned on the dorm lights on and spent an hour packing their stuff to leave, talking the entire time. No whispering, no attempting to use torches, no prepping the night before and no thought for anyone else at all. 

When i pointed out that other people were trying to sleep, they pointed out that they had to leave in a tone that said i was the one being unreasonable :/

I don't understand some peoples level of self absorption. It's mind blowing.
Tell him to stop being a “koskesh”.
I’d be looking into how bad Japanese jails REALLY are
When he says "let's go right now", go.
Probably will grow up to be given a cushy job in the family business and be the boss of several hard working humble people as he slowly ruins the business with lousy management decisions.  Dies a ripe old age after falling onto a golden cushion.  But all that time hes stuck with himself as company.
Reason number 100000 Hotels >
This guy would have been kicked out of my hostel so quickly he wouldn't even know what happened
TikTok?! Oh am glad I just experienced travelling when none of this crap was around.
I bet he loves Johnny Somali
Should've rocked in his face. Police won't do anything since it's just a dispute between 2 tourists.
Y’all should have jumped his ass lmao. The most down people to brawl are in hostels I swear. Me and my friends from a hostel got in a bar fight in Colombia, again in Costa Rica. I have known everyone for a good 5 hours before both of those incidents occurred. 
Reminds me of the time I was passed out in the doorway of my hostel in Prague, I had a heap of beers which was fine, but then someone passed me a blunt and that knocked me on my ass. I was fully aware of everything around me, like the beautiful Belgique girl singing me lullabies with her gorgeous readout raspy voice. 

But there was some Aussie guy who was angry at someone for some reason. I'm my paralysed state, with my face on the concrete, I told him to "calm down there sunshine"

He told me he was going to kick my fuckin face in because no one calls him sunshine. 😅🤦 Apparently was a big threat to his manliness 

☀️

Edit: no disrespect to the rest of the Aussies who are fun travellers. This guy was just a dick.
Karma isn’t going to get him but some less-polite country than Japan will ❤️
I tried the hostel experience once and had something similar happen. Never again. I’ll save more money to afford to sleep somewhere alone.
It's tourists like that that's going to fuck up Japan for the rest of us.
If history and probability has it correctly, the one that barks the loudest to start a fight less likely has a bite at all.
While this guy is clearly in the wrong, this is part of staying at a hostel. Buy some ear plugs and don’t let me ruin your trip.
Just had a guy playing sermons on his phone in the middle of the night. He had fallen asleep to them. He started snoring. I waited 5 minutes before waking him up and asking to turn them off. He said "oh my I'm so sorry" and turned his phone off and stopped snoring. I've wasted so many nights of sleep afraid to confront people before this year and I'm 2/2 so far for it going well
My friend got so mad at a guy in a hostel for doing similar shit he dipped his throat lozenges in the toilet and put them back in the package 🤣🤣🤣
There's a movie scene coming to mind... It's from Full Metal Jacket where they use the blanket to pin him to the bed and then whip the fuck out of him with socks filled with bars of soap.
As hostels, hotels and anywhere you stay can have reviews/rating system. The same should be applied to all of us...if you travel and you are a dick, or get kicked out...then you get that put on like your identity for travel...so then they will struggle to get in nice places
This is why you always bring a shovel when traveling. 
I don't condone violence, but if it is brought to your doorstep, the worst thing that you can do is become a doormat. By not checking him, you not only make your culture look weak, but you encourage his behavior, and he will continue to amplify his behavior until he is put in check. The next place that he stays, he will be worse to them than he was to you guys. It's like dealing with children who keep pushing their limits until they reach them. Then, if nobody checks him, he goes home and spreads the word that you people are weak and can easily be taken advantage of. Then, more serious issues will arise. Not all people are the same or share similar values. Some only see strength and weakness.
I wonder why you called him Persian and felt the need to mention it, does his Persian-ness have anything to do with his behaviour?
That’s how people trolled before the internet.
I had violent threats from an iranian guy in finland:/
When I went to Barcelona last year there was a guy of ambiguous ethnicity (I didn’t interact with him) who I’m PRETTY SURE stayed in the hostel the entire time on tiktok. In the morning when from when we woke up to when we left, he was on tiktok, we came back to get something later on, he was on tiktok, at night when we came back to sleep he was on tiktok. He had headphones in though
He sounds like a loser. Just hit him
Just tell him 'kose nanat'
Mean motherfucker in persian somehow
What hostel was this? Just curious
Can you get him kicked out?
sorry to hear this, some people and their entitlement
Time to invite some folks for a blanket party!
I wish hostels could leave reviews for people the way that AirBnbs can. It would ensure that it would be harder for him to book in the future.
Did well OP to avoid a fight.
Should've smashed his face in
Change Room?
Why isn't his stuff on the street by now?
Your story reminded me of a guy I roomed with in Ireland, kind of the same vibe, playing tiktoks full sound at night, and sometimes on repeats, like what the fuck. Selfish asshole vibes.
Full room go to reception and demand a refund or boot him out.

That or replicate the full metal jacket scene involving pillow cases n bars of soap
Flog him
Why didn’t you just whip his ass? Sometimes, violence is the answer.
Punch him in the mouth.
how old is he? is he trying to impress anyone 
You have to get at least one weird roommate story when travelling Japan, otherwise you haven’t had the full experience!
Many with personality disorders and other psychiatric problems are both budget travelers and prefer the captive audience hostel living offers them. Can be royal pains in the ass using the kitchen when they'r in it.  I recall somebody blowing smoke in my face 50 years ago and I broke his nose. Dorm rooms in hostels are sleeping rooms 24 hr a day and unnecessary noise should be restricted to the kitchen and other common areas.
Unfortunately, things like this happen and there's nothing one can do about it in the short run.

Also, one of the things I realized is that sometimes it's worth paying for an expensive service not for the value it provides but to filter out poor and obnoxious people. Go to an upscale bar, stay at an expensive hotel, fly business class - and you’ll be amazed how nice and courteous people can be.

Also, it would have played out VERY differently, if there was a big guy in your room, who would have none of it. We have so many SJW equality movements nowadays, but for some reason none to raise awareness about physical strength vs mundane confrontation.
Should’ve fought him
Why didn’t you all kick his ass? Pussies. 😉 Don’t let people get away with behavior like that.
Namba guesthouse?
Be an asshole back. I had a neighbor who keeps yelling (like when you watch sports) at 11pm-2am. What I did was play annoying music from 2am-5am. And timed every time he would come home. He’s back to normal sleeping hours now
Beat his ass
He wants attention. He’s super toxic and has no clue how to build relationships. 
That, or he’s an asshole all the way on psychopath area of the selfish spectrum
Report him to the police. They hate rude foreigners in Japan.
A psychopath or sociopath does this. Why people like this stay in a dorm room makes no sense, but they have no regard for other humans.
Send me the address I’ll take care of this 💁🏽‍♀️
This is the exact reason I have never and will never stay in a hostel. Just pay a little bit more and have a private space where some disgusting stranger isn't playing tiktoks and trying to give everyone lung cancer while they're trying to sleep. How is this even a debate.
Wish someone took a video and posted it somewhere... anywhere really.
If I had to stay at hostels I would kill myself.
I mean... Fight him lol
All of you are too patient. He needed a whooping through childhood and he needed one then
Wow so rude!
I really dislike this TikTok generation of backpackers and travelers. 

The “photo shoots” and selfish behavior in hostels like you describe was not like this 10 years ago when I was backpacking to different places.
Fight him. Knock a few teeth out and he won’t bother you anymore.
I would play rock music. Louder than his volume.
My first thought is that if this happened to me I would take a piece of paper and write, "dear host, we are thankful for your guesthouse. We are looking forward to giving it a good review. Our request as a group is that you inform this quest that he may not smoke in house and that if he uses his phone after 10pm without headphones, you will be asked to leave. If you try to instigate  a fight again you will be asked to leave." then get as many people as possible to sign it.  

 you could offer to buy out the smoker/jerk's dorm time. tell the owner that you and the other guests will pay for him to kick guy out. guy has 5 days left... tell him you will pay as a group for those days (make it clear if he rerents bed that offer is only until new person shows up.)
I remember staying in a hostel in Costa Rica. Lights out at 10, but they were playing Bob Marley until 2 am. Thought we were somewhere chill since it was above a yoga studio. Um, no. I walked down the stairs and grabbed a bunch of pebbles and started pelting their tin roof. It must have sounded like hail the way it was hitting it. 😂😂😂

I would have loved if one of the people walked out for a confrontation, but it never happened. They did quit playing shortly after the thunderous pebbles were lobbed onto their roof. I was making it rain. 

Your roommate is awful. He can do something about the noise, but chooses not to? Straight to jail. Honestly that is so rude.
put a rat in his room, put benzene in his lighter, pull a clown prank scare him shitless with some mafia gang lookalike costume, put him at gun point, pay a 13 year old a couple bucks and tell him to knock on his door/go to his room, then call the police and accuse him of being a predator. 

I mean there’s so many solutions, but my most preferred is to just ask him nicely
I woulda hurt the guy and checked out.
I had a hostel experience like this a long time ago, aggressive Australian dude was challenging people to fights for asking him to calm down or be quiet at like 4am,  challenged some Irish dude, who obliged him and put him on the floor with a bloody nose. I think he checked out the next morning, idk if planned or unplanned but I hope he’s doing better in life.
Phone ——> window
Bro woke up ready to go, wild
Some people really need a punch in the face
I’d break his jaw in half if he was in my room
Break his jaw in half
Sounds like a Persian guy in my experience
I don’t think the fact he is Persian is relevant to the story
So some random guy did all of this stuff and no one did anything? Y’all got punked out
I will never not use hotels when I travel. Yeesh.
Is he American
I would beat the shit out of him. Street Fighter style , with different nationalities and multiple location
Pepper spray? 

If not for direct application then I would get a pack cigarettes (preferablysame ones he uses), pepperspray the mouthpiece and leave them for him to find. 

If you can't find some capsaicin more concentrated than pepper spray apply that.

Or maybe one of those killer usb cables that can fry devices, apply in the same fashion as "spiced up" cigarettes.
Thank god I'm too old for hostels.
Where's the golden shower guy when you need him
Persians thinks we are scum for not thinking like them   , it's ok karma will get him , not fighting someone in another country is really smart...but you can mirror him also tu bug him next time
"Persia hasnt been a country since 637AD"...Sons of Anarchy
He told you he's Persian?🤣 He's from Iran!
[removed]
He's probably not even having a good time. 

Maybe he *is* an asshole, maybe he's working through something - as others said: I would expect the hostel to kick him out or otherwise solve the problem - or I would move myself.

  
(Unfortunately, yeah, with hostel prices as they are, finding another place on short notice isn't easy anymore.)
Come on, how can yous let him do all this? I would have broken his nose after the first warning.
Could it be cultural? Some cultures exercise different boundaries.
This is when you take things into your own hands. Stealing and/or covertly destroying possessions, for one.  Threatening violence is the other.

He sounds like an absolute total piece of dogsh*t who will only learn a lesson the difficult way.
Persian? How old is this guy?
Idk why we allow this type of surprised pikachu post about hostels.
Dont you know how to fight?!
Ayatollah Assahola!
I'm sorry but you can't really complain. You can vent and you're right he sounds crazy but unfortunately this is just part of the parcel of hostels. 

If you stay in enough hostels then you are 100% guaranteed going to get people that annoy you. 

I don't get the appeal of hostels. Why risk a bad night sleep which then completely sets the tempo for the day, just to save £20... Which you'll then spend on the hostel bar crawl...
I wish for moments like this to test BJJ out in real world situations 🤣
Tell me you're American without saying you're American. Persia isn't a country. Yugoslavia and Czechoslovakia aren't countries either btw
lol right?  I wouldn’t jump *straight to* violence. But this guy certainly needs the *threat* of violence ASAP.
It’s *almost* on the same level as spitting on someone IMO. Even when I was a smoker and having a cigarette with my other smoking friends, we’d always apologize to each other if we accidentally blew smoke directly in someone else’s face.
I agree with the sentiment, and I know this is a throwaway comment, but everyone reading this needs to keep in mind that Japanese police do not muck around when foreigners resort to brawling. You will go directly to jail, until your embassy intervenes to get you released, to be followed by deportation.
Yeah, I had a Canadian guy do this to me in Croatia. (You can smoke indoors there) I looked at him and said “you do that again and I’ll put that cigarette out on your neck.”

Unfortunately everyone, including women made a point to go out of their way to not get any smoke anywhere near me, to the point where I felt uncomfortable… like… I made them step on eggshells around me. Ah, well. Could be worse.
[removed]
[deleted]
Agreed. This guy needs to get punched in the face. It will humble him real quick and hopefully knock him out of the imaginary tough-guy world he's living in.
*assuming he has friends
Nah, he is gonna tell how everyone was submissive to him
Doubt it, sounds like he's actively trying to start a fight
I was seriously wondering why the cops weren't called for a verbal threat. The host said please be patient, he's leaving. Just let it be.

Kick this jerk out of Japan already.
It’s not politeness. It’s cowardice at that point. They’re afraid that calling the police will reflect badly on their establishment. Well, not doing anything about bad patrons does too.
In other countries someone would have pulled him outside and flattened his nose, and if they had any trouble doing it someone else would have helped.
The cops would do nothing lol
Surprised he wasn't thrown out in the morning. 
I’ve managed to trick my brain into thinking that snoring means “this is somewhere where sleep happens” and now it helps me fall asleep
Some really bizarre people traveling around. Period.

Large segments of the population today are socially dysfunctional if not outright DSM-5 certified. When these people travel, they usually get worse.
I've been told I snore. I just book my own room now. Turns out my nose is way off centre so I most likely simply can't breathe properly when I'm asleep but I've never known any different.
It's golden week
This was the culmination of that. He really didn't like having his behavior corrected, like a real child.
To add to this, I would tell the staff if they don't get him under control or ask him to leave, the rest of you will demand a refund and go to the other hostel.
Or just get your little group and go take care of it yourself. People are such babies these days.
Same. I'd rather pay 5x times more and stay at the hotel. I am probably getting older and less patient, can't share a room with people like this anymore.
Yeah, last time I shared a room with strangers was in a college hosted snowboarding trip and I made a note in my head that once I can afford it, I'm always going to book a room for myself. The mental relief is worth every penny to me.
I’ve stayed in over one hundred different hostels and never had anything this bad 🤷‍♀️
Same!!! I rather shorten my trips or take less of them if I cant afford accommodation otherplace, but never again staying at a dorm.
This is why I don’t stay in hostels
Japan is a really bad place to get arrested
[removed]
Well at least they didn't ya know have sex above you; I've been there!

I have found the best way to shut that shit down is to start rythmically moving in the bunk with them, and if there are any moaning sounds to join in; so far it works 100% of the time!
what is it
To add to that say he is a "madarjendeh" that will really get him riled up.
Try Filipino prisons. They are 5-star hotels.
Dude's not really an anomaly.
What do they say?  Usually the money is all spent and gone within 2 generations.
Do police really not care if two tourists fight in Japan?
I've stayed in 100s of hostels and can only remember one time being threatened with violence.  A buncha DRUNK Australian lads burst in the room at like 4AM, woke me up wanting to fight *because I was in one of their guys beds* , now I forget if I was in the wrong, them, or the front desk gave me the wrong instructions; but boy those 6 guys were ready to fight me, brave souls them!

There was no fight; I'm sure there were other incidents I encountered, but they were not memorable as I don't remember.

It is very uncommon, and I have seen the whole two drunks peacocking plenty of times in the hundreds of places I have stayed, and can't ever remember a fist being thrown.
Despite all the sun and fun Australia is actually a really violent culture.
In the military that is known as a *soap party,* which is a lot different than a soup party.
Like a social credit score?
this lol
Persians are one of the ethnic groups of Iran, what are you on about?
If he was Arab from Iran, he would have said he was Iranian.
Persians are not Arabs. Congrats on being racist AND ignorant. Of course, those two usually go together.
And you would have been arrested for assault. Happy holiday.
I don't think that there are any cultures where waking people up in the middle of the night repeatedly after being asked not to isn't rude as fuck. Whether you're from Africa or Iceland, you need to sleep.

I also can't think of any where blowing smoke directly in someone's face isn't very disrespectful come to think of it.
It definitely is cultural. 

Number of Iranians in Japan back in the 80-90s was around 50.000. Japan government deported most Iraninans because they harassed women in parks and sold drugs. They are about 5000 now left.
[removed]
Not in Japan it wouldn't no one wants holding for 23 days by the police if they feel like it.
Persian are the majority ethnic group in Iran. 

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Persians
If an Iranian is Persian and not Arab, they will tell you.
You must be incredibly confused when people describe someone as Jewish, or Black, or Francophone, or Tamil, or Uyghur, or Metis or a shit ton of other ethnic/religious/cultural descriptors that aren't countries either.
And, many people from Iran call themselves Persians. You should read & travel more, and insult less.
> But this guy certainly needs the threat of violence ASAP

That's not a "threat" if he is looking to fight, it's his desired outcome.
Right. I'm a smoker and I'd never sit there and blow smoke in someone's face intentionally. That's just fkng disrespectful. I can't stand sitting in a cloud of smoke either
Context matters with a story like that. What was your tone like? Did he blow smoke on you on purpose? Had you had a friendly conversation prior to that with anyone who witnessed the interaction or was this their first introduction to you? That's a pretty rough thing to say in a room full of strangers, so you can't blame them for being uneasy around you.
Some guys are [just habitual line steppers](https://youtu.be/l9yQq4NxyOE?si=Ip4CFLMAG6Mu6Qzt)
Do you think Osaka is in Ohio?
This shit annoys me. I just wanna smoke my tobacco pipes in peace, man. Blowing smoke in someone's face is a dick move and does nothing to help your argument.
He's probably friends with other assholes
*assuming this is a true story.
He was just minding his own business and everyone else started messing with him. Sure, he would watch videos late, but he always kept the volume low. He never bothered anyone, but there was this one dude who wouldn't leave him alone. Finally he started taking control of the situation and put everyone in their place. He restored order and everything was fine... Until the last day. That one dude knew he was leaving and decided to start some crap. He got put in his place and everyone knew who the boss was. 

That's about how the retelling would go by THAT guy.
They definitely should have been! I once called the US cops for someone threatening to kill me, which he continued to do at full volume right in front of them, and they did nothing. But hope springs eternal, because I’ll probably still call the cops if someone ever does it again … *sigh*
I don’t think relying on the police to handle your physical safety is intelligent. 

If someone threatens me, I ensure they CANNOT follow up on that statement. It’s not some law enforcement officers job, that’s what I have two hands for. Their job is to clean up the aftermath. 

So you either, shut up and let it go. Or handle it yourself from now on. Pretty please. Stop expecting some imaginary nonexistent hero to come save you from some dick head. Just smash him and be done with it. people treat you how you allow them to.
It can be politeness and cowardice. Politeness is very culturally specific and Japan is known for being at the extreme end. I think it's absolutely fine to call this being "too polite."
The cops wouldn't care about second hand smoke. But they have no qualms arresting foreigners for brawling - it's not tolerated at all
I never thought of snoring as asmr. Nice!
I use a sort of similar mind trick for insomnia. If I catch myself getting upset about not being asleep, I decide to be happy that I'm resting. This leads to zzz every time.
I snore and get my own room as much as possible too.  My old boyfriend once told me “it’s like sleeping next to a machine shop”.
I feel like visiting during this time period is already a big mistake
What's that?
Money talks, say if he isn’t kicked out asap, you will all find somewhere else and leave a bad review, which is completely fair if they’re not doing anything about him
Usually I agree, but if he really is a nutter and throws down on the street? Fun fact, you can get locked up for up to 20 days with no lawyer then deported in Japan for something like a physical fight. People don't realise how strict the police system is there.
that and the fact that its just *nice* to have your own room. im currently in japan and i paid $409 USD for 6 nights total. thats practically nothing compared to if i was staying in the US. i'd rather just be in a hotel.
I've been hostelling since October and haven't encountered any altercations or annoying people. Don't let posts like these make you think there's always crazy shit happening in hostels. 
continue tie squealing disarm squash panicky memory forgetful provide paltry

 *This post was mass deleted and anonymized with [Redact](https://redact.dev)*
melodic square attraction station weary badge beneficial fertile sink reminiscent

 *This post was mass deleted and anonymized with [Redact](https://redact.dev)*
Literal translation is like “pussy puller” but it’s more like “absolute toss of a wanker”.
https://letmegooglethat.com/?q=koskesh
Tale as old as time.
Exactly.  Usually the kids are such screw ups the parents regret the trust and inheritance around the time the trust starts paying out.  So what was all that scheming and union-busting for?  Ugh
Catch and release to deportation 

If you fought against a Japanese citizen ; you'll most likely get held before you see jail time
They most certainly do. Brawling isn't tolerated and fighting foreigners will quickly be arrested
Well that's good to know. Thank you for the information
Persia was the western name of Iran prior to 1935
Yeah, all the comments here about how you need to fight back and not be a doormat are hilarious. If change is not peacefully possible remove yourself from the situation, continue enjoying your travels.
Of course not. What I’m saying is some cultures might see these acts as not as terrible. That’s all I’m saying. And before you get all self righteous, no, I’m not excusing the behaviour by any means. I would find this guy very annoying, albeit I find a lot of people annoying.
I can’t tell if you’re joking. Hopefully you are.
Well today I've learnt something new... I'd always assumed "Persian" stopped the day the Persia did.
OP meant it as a nationality. Otherwise, bringing ethnicity into this would be extremely racist.
The irony of that coming from an American
It's bluster. He is acting like he wants to fight because he thinks no one is actually going to fight. He's a bully who needs to learn that he can get his ass kicked.
That's possible, but from OP's account there's no indication that he was looking for a fight until the incident on the final morning.
I don’t know if he did it on purpose, we were sitting in a group of people chatting, I was being pretty friendly with everyone, and he had just sat down with us. We were all solo travelers. My tone wasn’t too aggressive, more stern and matter of fact rather than uncontrolled anger, but I’m in general a fairly intimidating person.
Don’t even need to click on the link dawg. He was as habitually a fucker. On par with Rick James when it came to entitlement.
For me as a German, knowing about US town naming conventions, there might as well be an “Osaka, Ohio”
Well ohio is good morning in Japanese..
They said "in some jurisdictions" and "under certain factual circumstances" and went on to provide a (admittedly rather lengthy and detailed) example from Ohio to demonstrate.
Lololol
😂
 "The Human Centipede"
Assholes pull each other towards themselves as if with gravity. Almost like black holes.
🥹😂
Ahh the soothing sound of a lawnmower starting up several times. True tranquility
Awesome! I'll try this.
Nah I've been to Japan during Golden Week, it's fine. The big mistake is staying in a hostel.

Go to Google Maps and search for hotels in Osaka for tomorrow night. There are tons of regular hotel rooms available with four solid walls for like $50USD/night.
It's about a week at the start of May with a handful of Japanese holidays all clustered together, so everyone goes on vacation and travel is pretty rough til it's over I imagine.
One week in Japan where all the locals have off.

Considering the country's work culture, it's become the defacto holiday travel week, (and most Japanese travel locally) no place will have any vacancy, the locals often book months in advance.

I got blindsided with it once out in super rural parts of Japan (while staying a few days at random hostels in various cities).  Luckily my current hostel was able to pull some strings and got me the last bed at another place, to prevent me from having to spend the night on the street.
100% agree
I just think it's cowardly to hide behind hostel staff when the solution is right there.
Yeah, there's always the odd story like this but it's far from the norm. Hotels can be nice from time to time, but paying 5x as much just for a private space seems drastic to me when that money could be better spent on many other things. 

All comes down to personal preference, but 95% of the time of you get some earplugs and an eye mask in a good hostel you're golden.
Always interesting to me that people around the world assume the average American on Reddit is unaware or condoning of our 20th century war crimes. It’s some real consistent “whataboutism” I see on here.
[deleted]
ty!
Persian is the name of one of the ethnic groups of Iran. You can be Persian and from elsewhere and you can be Iranian and not Persian.
Nothing quite like a hospital visit for a concussion coupled with a police visit for assault to really make a holiday!
Happy to provide a TIL moment!
People from Iran also refer to themselves as Persian. There's nothing racist about it. OP couldn't have meant it as a nationality as Persia doesn't exist anymore.
You have zero idea what you are talking about. 

Persians are an ethnic group, they can be from Iran or elsewhere. 

Iranians are citizens of Iran, and can be Persian or Armenian or Balochs or Kurds or Lurs or any of several dozen other ethnic groups.

Be careful about insulting other people's knowledge when you don't have any.
I agree.  A good right cross/uppercut to the chin should put him in nap-ville.  Put your whole body behind it almost like you're twisting and lifting off with whatever side and hand you're striking with. Not that I've ever done that. Nor would I advocate such behavior.
At 7 am? There is definitely some mental instability going on here.
Sounds like you were an asshole
Fuck yo couch!
[deleted]
pronounced “oh-SACK-uh”
Wait I thought ohana means family
Faith in humanity restored, no one actually reads anything nowadays
I don't think it is cowardly wanting to avoid japanise jail. It is no joke.
Maybe, but if you're introducing an extreme term like 'genocide' to a comment about taking care of rude, inconsiderate roommates, don't be surprised if people hit back. 🙄 🤦‍♂️
many illegal fearless doll crowd weather slimy muddle fly sense

 *This post was mass deleted and anonymized with [Redact](https://redact.dev)*
hahaha exactly!
So why didn't he just say where he's from?  I'm from USA but I don't tell people I'm German ethnicity.  

Clearly he can't assimilate with traveler's in a community environment like a hostel.
Then why would OP bring up their nationality? It's racist
Huh? What did I say to the contrary?
Eh, perhaps a bit. I have my reasons though
Every single August when I go to the Dublin Irish Festival I have to temper people's expectations immediately by telling them it's in Ohio 😆
Sure, it’s fine to hit back, but at least do it with something that’s relevant. Perhaps one could draw a line leading from a society that’s okay with putting people in the emergency room for rude behavior to something like genocide.
Because the Persia/Iran name separation happened relatively recently and affected so many people it's not uncommon for the words to get incorrectly used, or accidentally misused, even by Iranians/Persians.

SOURCE: SO and half my friend group are Persian or Kurds from Iran.

EDIT: Also, saying you're Persian usually carries less baggage than saying you're Iranian.
Sounds like you need a good ass kicking tough guy. “People are afraid of me” gtfo
This!  Nothing against the Iranian people.
Perhaps, a bit. But I’d definitely prefer being full of myself over angry at a random person on the internet.
Started piano last year w/o any musical background.
I'm aware of a flubbed chord and somehow I hit a high c instead of an f. Also I am trying to keep my wrists up. But any other thinks I should be working on let me know, thanks.
OP (/u/Different_States) welcomes critique. Please keep criticism constructive, respectful, pertinent, and competent. Critique should reinforce OP's strengths, and provide actionable feedback in areas that you believe can be improved. If you're commenting from a particular context or perspective (e.g., traditional classical practice), it's good to state as such. Objectivity is preferred over subjectivity, but good-faith subjective critique is okay. Comments that are disrespectful or mean-spirited can lead to being banned. Comments about the OP's appearance, except as it pertains to piano technique, are forbidden.


*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/piano) if you have any questions or concerns.*
Nice! If you haven’t yet, I totally recommend grabbing a speaker and playing along with the recording.

Not to practice or anything necessarily, just cause it’s fun.
As a fellow novice, one year next month, I say well done. This is why I check this site watching, people who enjoy breaking the ‘code’ and becoming a musician.  I’m not interested in classical music just songs I grew up on.
You're doing great! I agree that your wrists are up well and you have good finger/hand posture (gently curved).

I'm just a hobbyist, but two small things to try:

One - generally, if you're repeating a note, you're supposed to hit it with a different finger - this gives you time to reposition and it helps keep the timing in check. For this song, it might not matter as much because of the mostyly narrow range and high rate of repeated notes.

Two - your playing is stiff (this is good for learning and avoiding mistakes). As you practice this song, try 'rolling' your   hand to smooth out certain parts, particularly runs. This will make the song sound more fluid when you play for your friends and family.
How strange, similar background to you and time played. I also tried this song for the first time yesterday and discovered I can play it!

Sounds great, congrats.
I recommend you a pedal so you can hold the note
I'm listening to this while cooking. Sounds, good bud.
I’ve been playing classical for 20 years and I love when new people pick up the piano!! Form is great for a year’s worth of practice, keep playing what you like and you’ll fall more in love with music every day !
Cool!
Good job keep up the great work!!
Great job!
Sounds great man! Especially for such a short time learning. Keep it up!
Doing hand stretches and practicing the Hanon Exercises can help with your dexterity. One of my friends used to make a living playing piano and recommended Hanon to me. I’m 40 myself and started playing earlier this year. It’s cool to see others getting joy from learning. Great job!
thanks for playing . its so good. What is your beard secret man and you are so handsome. And look like Jhon Wick. i am following you
Great job 👏 
10 months into my journey and wonder how I’ve lived without piano the last 38 years.
I’m Coming up on a year in January. Proud of you mate !!
Thats great
Is this the arrangement on musicnotes?  I think you’re flipping the quarter and eighth notes in the second bar.  Sounds nice, though.

Nevermind - I see the version you’re playing.
You started LAST YEAR only and you got to this!!! It's so amazing, honestly, I love the song and how you play it is nice too! This is very good, actually!

If you played it with a backing track it would be absolutely perfect :) It would be a little hard to keep up but the results are beautiful...

Also why do i feel like you're hitting the notes a bit hard 🤣 or is it recording problems? But overall it is G R E A T!
This should be posted at r/mademesmile
Awesome performance! And I looove your style! 🗿

P.S.: the fact that you were able to laugh at your mistake truly shows that you master the vibe of the song you play, and weren't sidetracked. That's hard at first!
This is amazing. I don't know what it is about this video but it's really wholesome. Keep practicing and going! You're an amazing human being!
Congrats! Love Petty
Good stuff! Keep playing!

As I always say, time goes by quickly, before you know it you’ll have been playing for 10 years
Bro, that's awesome, you're killing it! Tom Petty is awesome, and makes me wanna learn this one.
Nice. You just started last year? That’s impressive.
You're doing great.    Its not necessary but if you're having this much fun now finding a teacher would help a lot.    A good teacher should be able to help you within the style you want to learn or even better encourage you to try different things you might not think you'd like.
mashallah
Well done, sounds great :)
Yes!

Grarz man, sounding awesome.

Adding the music from Petty over a speaker will definitely make it more fun.
Amazing. Gives me hope I can still learn. Kudos.
As a fellow new piano player at the year mark you’re laugh as you powered through the section with around a minute to go was awesome and helped remind me mistakes can be fun and a part of the process.
Nice work…hope to see more updates as you progress.
I assume you love this song? It's fun to be able to play a song you love\~ Tried singing along yet? Only thing I'd say is that the timing feels a little clunky. I might try slowing down a little and smoothing it out before speeding back up. Have you considered a metronome?
And I'm freeeeee free falling!!
Great job, mate!!👏🏻👏🏻👏🏻
Is he starting in the right position?
What does NAPPY BIATHDAY mean?
Love it. Keep it up. 👏👏🤟
Now im freeeeee
If this is any glimpse of where I can be in a year, I'll definitely stick it out. Very motivating
Dude this is awesome for no musical background

I think if you really wanna level up your playing you should try to use more pedal, look up some romantic era piano works like Chopin and Debussy, Clair de lune is a great example of good use of pedal. Listen to how those pieces express themselves and try to imitate that expression on the songs you're learning. Don't just play what's on the page, play how you feel
... That's an excellent idea!! I'm doing that now! 

It'll be like jamming with Petty!

Edit: ok just did it and it was awesome. Although I think it would be good practice too. Playing while also listening to someone else and trying to work with it was tricky. Thanks for the idea
Classical music looks like it would be a fun challenge but I'm with you I just want to play music I like (which I think is the key to sticking with it)  

Not to mention I'm a middle aged construction worker with more hand injuries than I can count, I'll never be a great pianist but I'm having fun learning "zombie" and "nothing else matters"
Hey great! Thanks a lot for the feed back. I'll try the different finger thing. Honestly I'm learning of an app that has "fingering suggestions" but it has been wrong plenty in the past. 

And I'll look into the "rolling" things. Honestly I have no idea what that means but that's why there's Google right?
We use different fingers for the same note to prevent “woodpecker” sound. In general, the same note should be played with 4-3-2-1.  While playing the same note, bring the fingers toward your palm. Sorry, piano teacher here.
Thanks!! 

I think it's a really good learning song. 

When I was first learning to use both hands I used a simplified version. Now I'm working on chords and using this version. 

Another really good one for this level is Zombie-Cranberries. 

And it's a lot of fun.
Ha yeah I'm just starting petal work. Need a lot of practice on that.
Thank you! ... Shit I have to start cooking soon.
Thanks, I've been working on it.
Thank you! Will do.
Thank you 😁
Huh I'll look into that. Should probably do something like that regardless. 

Thanks for the advice!
Regular shampooing and beard balm to keep it slightly under control
Thank you!
I'm using playground sessions. And I'll look into that, but the app says I'm hitting high 90% on accuracy and I don't have the knowledge to dispute my computer overlord.
Haha thank you. A little over a year now. Practicing almost every day usually for 40-60 minutes. 

And yeah I'm hitting the keys a bit hard. I'm a structural ironworker by trade which for piano means my strikes can be on the hard side and my dexterity suffers. But I'm working on being a little more gentle.
I didn't really think of that. But yeah good idea. Thanks
Thank you!
Just over a year ago yeah. 

Thank you! I've been working at it quite a bit
Someone else made this suggestion, but to fix any bad habits I might be developing which is valid. 

I really like your point of view too. I know there are a lot of holes in my knowledge and I kinda feel like a cook who can only follow a recipe. Instead of a chef who fully understands. 

Food metaphor... I must be hungry.
Thank you!
Someone else suggested that so I gave it a go. It was a lot of fun!
So I haven't had a chance to look into the music yet

But I have been working on the pedal way more and he'll yeah that sounds so much better!! 

Except my leg is sore now. 

Thanks again!
I've just started to use more pedal and I like how stand by me sounds slowed down a touch and just with constant damper. But that's not really pedal work. 

I've also been trying to use the sustain pedal on the bass line of boulevard of broken dreams because the chords are so far apart but I need to work on the coordination. 

And I've been trying to get more "feeling" out of zombie with dynamics so it's more expressive. 

Thanks a lot for the feed back and I'll check out those artists for inspiration and see if I can't get better.
If you are listening on youtube you can slow the video down just a bit if you are having trouble keeping up.
Yes!!! Man I’m so happy you enjoyed it!

(I used to play music with other people a lot, these days I’m usually solo at home but I absolutely love playing with recordings. It’s a fun substitute.)
I’m a warehouse manager, my crew looks at me like I’m insane, playing piano at 60 but I absolutely love it. Pink Floyd, Radiohead, Elvis, Van Morrison, the Cranberries, I can ‘play’ about 85% of 7 songs. I play till my wife recognizes what I’m playing and I consider that a win.
The main thing is that you're definitely now a piano player. And we're all piano players here. Excellent.
For rolling, I just mean that you could slur your notes more. This can be achieved (practically/physically) by rolling your wrist.

But seriously, you're doing great. Keep it up!
If you have questions, hit me up. Apps are trash honestly. I’m a professional pianist/pedagogue.
Holy shit! I'm sorry I missed your reply and I'm just seeing it now. 

Just tried it and that's awesome!!!! 

Always hated that woodpecker sound. 

This is going to take a bit of relearning....
Thanks for the suggestion, I will 100% give this a try, I love the cranberries.
It'll be worth it brother, on most songs that arent some sort of classical advanced thing the pedal takes you from a beginner sound way way closer to an advanced sound. It's magic, and it's like riding a bike -- eventually youll do it totally without thinking.
Dont mention 😊
You’re good. I was looking at a different arrangement.
You are an amazing dad probably
That's awesome. My main goal with piano is to be able to play with other people and have fun. But like I said I have absolutely no experience, I'm still trying to figure out how to play well with others 😁. 

I'm going to keep doing that with a couple of my other songs.
That's awesome! Yeah I'm a structural ironworker and I remember one of my first mile stones I was talking about it at work and this guy (who is a musician) just says "aren't you too old to be learning" 

I said "maybe but I'm just going to be older tomorrow" 

I've actually been lucky though the vast majority of comments have been positive.
Absolutely. I really did find a love for that instrument and I do look forward to getting better. 

Thanks for the words of encouragement.
Oh I will!!!



My wife threatened to divorce me if I quit... I don't know if she's joking.
That’s why a good teacher is important. And that’s only one small example. Each note has a different color.
Did you try it?
I try 😁 all I can do.
In my opinion playing with other people is the best part of piano by far. That’s an awesome goal and, hand to god, you could definitely hold your own in a chill jam session. If you get an opportunity I’d say go do it!
Briefly yesterday, i didn't immediately feel it like I did with free falling, so I need a longer sit to give it another stab.

I had someone recommend "See You Again" by Charlie Puth which I also tried and is pretty easy and sounds quite good. It's got some quite manageable sixteenths, I think it sounds a lot more technical than it actually is.
Thanks a lot! I think my local library hosts some kind of jam session. I'll look into it. Maybe after I get a better traveling keyboard.
I've just had a lesson with THE Cyprien Katsaris!!!
He said I play very well and that he wasn't expecting such a high level 🥲 This is the guy whom I listened to for many years on YouTube, who absolutely shredded through Liszt's 2nd concerto and Hungarian Fantasy yesterday (last pic)...and today he tells me he really likes my playing? Been pinching myself ever since but so far I've not woken up from this dream. Seriously, this makes me wanna practice 41h a day.

For anyone wondering, we were doing Beethoven's Waldstein sonata, Liszt's Tarantella and a bit of Chopin's Etude op.10 no.8
One of the greatest living pianists. Glad to know you’ve had a memorable experience of a lifetime!
He's played a lot of transcriptions, which I'm a big fan of.  Huge technique
that’s great! how’d you manage to make this happen ?
Those are some heavy pieces, and to get complimented on it as well! Just curious, why not have him sign your sheet music instead of your tablet?

41h a day? You'll be bigger than Ling Ling!
I’m super happy for you, you will never forget this amazing day ☺️
Inspiring!!!
damn luckyyy, i love his fantasie impromptu
He is amazing and your enthusiasm is infectious!  May we all be so psyched!
living the dream dude
This is so cool, Katsaris' interpretation of Chopin's Heroic Polonaise is my favorite!
wow. this story is unreal. congratulations, that’s such a special and a once in a lifetime experience
Oh he’s a legend I have listened his Liszt interpretations over and over
Wonderful. One of my favourite pianist.
Signing an iPad kinda feels weird to me hahaha. No paper?
Lucky! His performance of Beethoven's 9th is one of my all time favorites
Lucky!
Arent you alex o connor?
I would cry upon knowing that I'm having a masterclass with him. One of the greatest living pianists for sure.
WOAAAAHHH congratulations!!!! That's amazing. Dope that he liked your playing!!!
Oh my god!!!???
I've heard him play live and he played the best live performance I've ever heard. Huge musician. How was he as a teacher? Did he tell you anything special?
Yesss I'm still startstruck
Yess dude's a beast. Love his Liszt/Beethoven symphonies
What do you mean he’s “played” transcriptions? Seems like an oxymoron to me? Isn’t transcription the act of writing a performed piece down?

Edit: bruh why you all downvoting me for asking a question? Questions not allowed on this sub?
Some connections and a bit of luck. He was playing a concert in my country's capital, and we'd first bought tickets to see him like any other time. A couple days before the concert we find out that the woman who actually arranged for him to come here in the first place is the mother of a cellist i played with in a trio last year. She asked the maestro if he wanted to hear me and HE SAID YES

ON TOP OF THAT HE DIDNT CHARGE ME ANYTHING, HE GENUINELY *WANTED* TO HEAR ME
I use my tablet for sheet music 99% of the time, so now I'll have his singature everywhere with me. And I can copy and paste it onto any sheed music I like :)

For someone to be bigger than Ling Ling we'd need to completely reevaluate our models of the known universe and how it works. I'm doubtful about that, but I have hopes!
I don't know who that..is?
He isn't too experienced as a teacher, he's more of a performer, but he's still got some interesting stuff to share. Musically he's a big proponent of personal choice, so he doesn't do fine details and doesn't force his interpretation. Imo too much so, because listening back to the recording, there's a lot of stuff I see I could've done better, but oh well.

He shared a lot of tips on how to practice, make certain sections of music into exercises and vary the tempo. He kinda reminded me of the existence of the damper pedal, since most pianists rarely ever use it as its behavior varies vastly and unpredictably between different pianos (well, he does use it and I think he's right). Many of us also underutilize our arms and focus too much on the fingers, he does a lot of the moving with his arms. For example, for certain fast scales, he doesn't even play legato and instead quickly jumps between positions.

All in all, he shared more technical wizardry and practice wisdom, but very valuable information nonetheless.

Something else that i think is really important, especially coming from someone who plays concerts for a living, is that it's never a bad idea to also keep other career options in mind (that can be music-related of course, such as a teacher or musicologist) because the scene is so saturated and making it big is a real gamble, no matter how well you play. He says that many young pianists he hears at competitions play better than many piano legends did at their age. That if the likes of Rubinstein or Ashkenazy were starting off today there'd be absolutely no guarantee that they'd make it.

The comment that I loved the most, though, is when I started playing the 2nd part of the Tarantella, I apparently did it a bit too rhythmically correctly and regularly, so he stopped me, looked me in the eye, and told me: "this is a Neapolitan canzona (song), i need more of the taste of the tomato"

Love it
Basically Liszt/Beethoven/katsaris with all the changes he makes! He’s incredible. A true musician
Orchestral transcriptions for piano.  I suppose "arrangement" is a more accurate term, but very complex, pianistic arrangements are called transcriptions (probably to contrast to piano "reductions", which are more functional)

e.g. Liszt arranged a lot of other composers' work and they are always called transcriptions
Almost every great pianist/teacher being really humble makes me happy and adore them for the sincerity. Congratulations by the way :) I somehow hadnt heard of him before but i will definitely check out his recordings.
You might be lucky but it's also well deserved as you were basically recommended by someone he trusted.

I can imagine how it went when I see the recorded master classes he published on his official channel. I feel sorry for people who can't understand French when I see this serie on Chopin, it's so enjoyable to hear the explanation and the music going through.

[https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YUDjSxD-B1I&list=PLqa5cA-ylEJRCF-yI7BOR0QoSqY9UKxFM&index=16](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YUDjSxD-B1I&list=PLqa5cA-ylEJRCF-yI7BOR0QoSqY9UKxFM&index=16)
Holy shit
Oh my godddddd and he WANTED TO HEAR YOUR PLAYING
Search his name on youtube you look just like him.
Thanks a lot for taking the time to share your experience. I really would like to be in your position. I'm surprised that he shared tips on how to practice. I love him a bit more now
That's true I guess but I still feel *incredibly* lucky to have had this experience. 

I've listened to some of his masterclasses, but not the one you linked. I'll make sure to do that.
Really. You can say that again!!
Maybe if Billy Butcher from The Boys and I had a kid
A spontaneous trip to Italy changed my life.
I'm a 24M, I've spent the last five years entirely focused on building my career. I’ve made solid progress, but along the way, I realized I was feeling lonely and unfulfilled. No meaningful relationships, no adventures, no new experiences. Just work.

Then, in a moment of clarity, I did something impulsive. I booked a trip to Italy, planned the whole thing in one night, and stopped making excuses. Time was slipping by, and while saving money and focusing on my career got me far, I wasn't going to get my 20s back. I couldn't stand the idea of not feeling alive. The world is too amazing to just hide at home.

So, I got on that flight with almost no expectations, ready to explore Rome and try solo travel. Little did I know, this trip would completely change how I see the world.

At the hostel, I quickly met some incredible people. Soon, I found myself canceling my pre-planned activities to hang out with them, and it was the best decision ever. I learned that good people can turn even a simple trip into something unforgettable. I'm so glad I approached them. I'm usually too self-conscious and wait for others to approach me, which is not the best strategy...

One of the best parts of traveling alone was the chance to reinvent myself. Nobody knew my past or my habits, which gave me the freedom to be a better version of myself. Being away from home let me finally grow into the person I wanted to be.

I saw this girl in the common room and felt drawn to her but didn't think much of it. Later, we accidentally bumped into each other while going out for a drink, and she bought me one. We spent the whole evening together and even exchanged necklaces before returning to our rooms. The next day, we had a magical date, like a scene from Before Sunrise, and parted ways as she returned to her country. That connection made the trip unforgettable and made me think about how meaningful it is to share moments with someone. It made me think about how important it is for me to find my wife and build a life with her.

I realized I'd burned out trying to be hyper-focused on success, thinking I was smarter than my peers. But we all need real experiences and connections to feel alive. This trip woke me up. I used to make excuses, like “travel is overrated” or "I'll enjoy it later," but there's no perfect moment.

Now, I'm planning a 3-6 month trip to Asia. With no major responsibilities and a flexible schedule, I have little to lose and so much to gain. I want to feel alive again, and I'm tired of playing it safe, thinking I can just save it all for "later."

Traveling has made me more social and opened my eyes to how big the world truly is. I can choose where to live and what kind of life to build. The perfectionist in me still wants to hold back, but that's not living. Life happens while we're busy planning for a perfect future.

I used to fear challenges and discomfort. Now, my biggest fear is living a safe, easy life in my hometown. It's crazy how one trip can change your perspective so much.

If you're thinking about going on a trip, but aren't quite sure, just go for it. This is your sign. If you can't, do everything you can to find a way to do it. Remember, on your deathbed you'll mostly regret the things you didn't do.

**TL;DR:**

After years of prioritizing my career, I took a spontaneous trip to Italy and discovered I'd been missing out on truly living. I made new friends, met someone special, and gained a fresh perspective on life. Success and money mean little if you don’t experience the world and create memories. If you’re hesitant to travel, just go for it. You won’t regret it. You’ll return home a better person.
brrrooo, we on the same wavelength!! glad you enjoyed your trip :)
When I retired five years ago I had three main goals: travel often, become a better volleyball official and try to live life to the fullest.

After being retired for almost 4 years and looking back at my life since retirement I saw that I was very happy officiating volleyball almost 12 months out of the year but the only travel I was doing was across the country working various volleyball tournaments.

With the help of a good friend, I realized that I kept putting off recreational traveling primarily because I was very hesitant to travel alone. It was at that time that I decided to make the time in my busy volleyball schedule and just give solo traveling a try.

I planned a 2 week trip to İstanbul for April 2023. About 5 days before my scheduled trip, my AirBnB host informed me they had COVID and I needed to find a new AirBnB ASAP, which I was able to do.

Long story short, I am now happily married to my AirBnB host and live half the year in İstanbul!

It is funny how much life can change on a dime!

My advice ... find the time to travel and enjoy what the world has to offer. 

You never know!
Same thing for me mate, i went to Thailand for 1,5months and met another traveller there, 8months later and we are moving in together soon, enjoy your travels!
Good for you dude!  Same thing happened to me at 28 and it was the best decision I ever made.  I actually met my wife in a roundabout way because of that trip and now we're married with the best little guy at home causing a ruckus.

You've still got a few years though!   I hope you keep travelling before you find "the one"!
I love this post and resonated with everything you said. I’ve travelled a bit but always with family/friends but so many times, I had to wait on others to arrange things, or they would reschedule/cancel. This year I decided I wanted to spend my Birthday in Italy alone. I have horrible anxiety so it was a lot, there were a few days leading up to my trip that I panicked and almost cancelled the whole thing. 
I was also a bit worried as a female solo travelling but that wasn’t a big deal at all, it’s turned out to be the best holiday I have ever had. I did what I wanted, when I wanted, I mixed with the locals, ate where the locals ate, stayed in the most beautiful old building full of history and I felt so at peace the whole time I was there. People there were lovely and friendly. 
I’m going back to Italy soon on another solo adventure. Life is too short. Happy travels in Asia!
Sometimes we are too stuck up in certain goals and we forget we are just a little speck of dust in this universe.

You might have money, car and fame but if none of those things are accompanied by what you love, life isnt worth living.

Im happy you have had a great time and wish you even more travels. Its an amazing experience that opens your horizons every time you travel.

Happy travel my friend
I just came back from a solo trip. I was on a solo hike, met this girl on the hike also solo who lived in another country (same country I was heading to next) hung out a few times, took her on some dates and now she’s coming to my country.
Good to see some positivity in this sub! It's helping me to push through the idea of quitting my own job to travel. I keep thinking it's a mistake and it's wrong but the idea of having a full month (or two) of being free, and not having to worry about my 2 weeks annual leave restriction at a time sounds amazing
Did the same thing, i booked a 3 week trip, turned into 6 months of over 20 countries across the globe.  Was amazing
Congrats to you! I paused my life and moved to the Far East! Best decision of my life.
After I broke up with my ex of 6 years I spent two weeks driving around Florida and sitting on the beach.

Really helped me take control of my life again and acted like a hard reset.

If you’re unhappy with your life, do something crazy.
I am 34 year old female who literally is going through a horribly traumatic breakup with my boyfriend of over 10 years. I traveled a lot by myself, with family or him. Traveling by yourself is the best way to get to know yourself. You are forced to eat by yourself without any interactions and just let it all sink in a really appreciate what’s going on around you, how your food tastes, and think about your life. Travel as much  as possible by yourself. You’ll be a better version of yourself because of it. Money comes and goes and you’ll be fine.
Great job on the career as well man! The single mindedness has brought you far, you can go further but don’t forget to enjoy the path to success. I appreciate you sharing your experience, and cheers to more unforgettable ones!
Bro good for you. And I’m happy you realized that in your 20s.
Sounds awesome man you are going to love Asia it's fucking incredible and so much fun.
> *I learned that good people can turn even a simple trip into something unforgettable.*

.

>*One of the best parts of traveling alone was the chance to reinvent myself.*

.

>*This trip woke me up.*

.

>*I used to fear challenges and discomfort.*

.

A great catalog of the magnificent and often magical effects of travel!

&nbsp;

One might add:   
&nbsp;

- Witnessing and immersing in different ways of life, different ways of seeing and being in the world.   
&nbsp;

- Gaining an understanding of what it means to be *enculturated* -- to belong to a people and a place, to have roots in traditions and lineage, and to be surrounded by both physical (craft, architecture, art, cuisine, etc.) and relational (etiquette, ritual, celebration, spirituality) reminders of what it means to be fully human.   
&nbsp;

- Connecting to humanity and nature, *beyond* political, caste, racial, or national boundaries.   
&nbsp;

- Breaking free of habitual self-centered thinking ("it's all about me"), and having the chance to, *or be required to*, set aside stale old habits and preferences.   
&nbsp;

- Learning one can depend on one's own resources; and learning how deep those resources run. You may not always pack and carry the perfect kit for ever occasion, but you can pretty much always figure something out, cleverly adapt, or bring forth enough good cheer to deal with things as they are.   
&nbsp;

- Discovering that failure is sometimes a marvellous outcome.   
&nbsp;

- The joy of living simply, efficiently.
Went to South America this past summer and felt exactly this! So much so I sent my groupchat this post haha. It’s been 4 months and I’m still riding the high. Pretty much every aspect of my life has improved since the trip (has not been easy but it’s been a welcomed change). Planning my first solo trip for my birthday and needed to hear this! Love this for you.
Leaving for the next leg of my big trip tomorrow, this hyped me up dude, happy for you, god speed
Thank you for sharing this man. 

I’m the same age as you and I was working a contract role, I was set to get a full time offer and a massive raise + benefits but they cancelled it a month before I would get it due to restructuring in April…

I have never solo travelled before, but I’ve been thinking of Japan for about a year now. I finally decided I would go next month but my family talked me out of it because I’m still job searching. 

Reading your post made me realize the job search can wait a little longer 

All the best with your trip to Asia!
I'm now sitting in a Budapest airport, heading back home after two hours. It was my first solo trip and, to be honest, many pre-Budapest bad or strange habits will forever be left here and so many new habits or forces for some new actions are gained. It's for sure changed my life. 

Sitting in the Budapest's city center, received an email from my job that from October I need to work on Sundays too. Same second I said myself - no, I don't want further to live like that. I need changes in my life.

So go ahead! How was said in a film "Trainspotting": ”Now I’ve justified this to myself in all sorts of ways. It wasn’t a big deal, just a minor betrayal.
Hi MountainThen6692, your post will need to be manually approved by a moderator as your account age is less than 48 hours, this is an automated measure to prevent spam. Please be patient and do not message the mods or repost as we will get to the modqueue as soon as we can. Thank you for your understanding!

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/solotravel) if you have any questions or concerns.*
Same bro!
love this!! I recently had a work trip to Spain and I randomly decided to head to the UK after that, my first solo travelling. and it really open my eyes to so many new things in life. I’m over here planning my next trip but in a year :( anyways, have a wonderful one in Asia!
Congrats man! I’ve been to Italy several times and it is one of my favorite places on earth. I just turned 30 and I’m itching to take a sabbatical like you are. Travel as much as you can, your career will always be there when (or if!!) you come back.
Similar story here. I randomly visited Brazil for a few weeks solo and fell in love, now we're in a long distance relationship. When you have no expectations, and open yourself to new experiences some magical things can happen.
Key detail: you went to Rome, the most incredible place on Earth.
Recently took my first trip outside the US, and Indid it solo and impulsively as well. I’m blown away by the kindness and warmth I experienced in Mexico. I made more new friends in one week there than I do in a year where I’m a local. Met so many cool people, both locals and other tourists. I am definitely a traveller now.

I resonate with everything in your post. I’m happy and proud of both of us! :)
I spent six months travelling from Singapore to Japan and it was an amazing experience! So many different people and places.
Thank you for this! I’m going on my first solo trip this weekend and I couldn’t be happier
Good shit bro. I did a similar trip at 21 and then again at 24. Now I’m thinking of doing my biggest trip yet in a year or 2 when I’m 27 or 28. I’m thinking about traveling for 6-12 months. A lot of my friends just brag about their savings/investments and 401ks. But what’s the point if you’re not living it up a bit during our prime years. Waiting till retirement to see this world is crazy in my opinion
Glad you enjoyed. Life is the dancer you are the Dance 🕺
overconfident sophisticated steep soft domineering snobbish reply elastic rainstorm ink

 *This post was mass deleted and anonymized with [Redact](https://redact.dev/home)*
Wow! What cities did you visit?
That's really nice, you went only to Rome or also other places?
Yay! I love this for you.
wow, this sounds amazing. have so much fun on your asia trip!!
man im happy for you and I had the exact same experience at 26!
Im currently on a spontaneous trip to Italy and caught covid in Milan lol.
This hits hard. In same boat.
Totally relatable 
During my college years and post that a year in job.
I took 3-4 trips on an average in year from 2nd year itself.
It is such a calming and revealing experience, truly shapes your perspective and makes you mature. 
If one truly wants to feel the magic, go to Spiti / kashmir. They are wonderland. Spiti will humble you, specially winter spiti. Then there are beautiful treks in Uttarakhand and Himachal, which you can explore.so many good people, so much to explore.
This post is a catalyst in my next endeavour to travel south East Asian countries. Need a travel buddy ig haha
While it's probably good to focus on your career, it's also good to take the time to be you, another you, a new you, every once in a while. I used to always travel solo and move around, living in different places. Rather than focusing on a career. Living in Rome was the best time of my life and I am happy when others find themselves in Rome as well.
I should pick this up and do it next year, I have been in europe this year for a little more than a month but always with people (my mom, few friends). 
I missed taking few nights in a hostel to make new friends, something I have done 10 years ago.
Same experience I had in Mexico. My priorities shifted after one trip. Now I'm planning to explore the top LatAm cities while working remotely next year.
i second this
Awesome to hear!
brah go find her
Awesome! My dad encouraged me to travel when I was younger and that was the best thing.  When you see the world it puts a lot of things in perspective. 

May I ask, are you able to work remotely from Asia? Or are you just solely focused on travel?
What nationality are you OP? 

Life is indeed too short to stay in one place all your life. It’s like Ronnie Van Zant said: “I think everybody wants to be a free bird.”
married 24 yrs to someone i met at the reception desk in a youth hostel in Lyon FR
I fell in love with Rome.
It's like Richard Pryor said "travel changes your life and shit" or something like that
This is pretty awesome. Glad you took a trip, enjoyed it, and have a new perspective on things! Thank you for sharing and encouraging others!
Great read OP. Before sunrise italy setting seems so magical
Bro went from American to European in one trip. Welcome!
Excited for your time in Asia! I live there and I’m happy to help you out with recommendations because I resonated with your post so much :)
Inspiring! Are you keeping in touch with her, OP?
This post is honestly beautiful. Well done. 
Well done stepping out of your comfort zone
I love this 
Im happy for you bro
did your wife approve of this date? lol
>Now, I'm planning a 3-6 month trip to Asia. 

How does this work? My job prevents me from doing trips longer than two weeks. Of course, I could quit the job in order to gain time, but I need the money to live and also be able to enjoy luxury like traveling.
Much joy, thank you for sharing
I met my wife in a hostel
I had a similar experience! I quit a toxic job. I booked a solo trip to Europe. On the second night of my trip, I met my now husband. I didn’t have my full itinerary planned, so I was able to fly to see him two more times before I went back  to the US. Since then, we have been flying back and forth for the past few years! We are just waiting for his visa to get approved and he’ll be moving to me :).
You gotta do Da nang in Vietnam! 🫶
travel completely transformed who i was (for the better). people don't understand until it happens to them
The toughest in all of this is to find the right balance between a life away (which is wonderful but isn't a normal life) and a normal life which isn't always exciting and new but which allows you to build on. Beware of long distance relationships! Enjoy your travels. Keep in mind that one day, you may have to settle somewhere. Where and how is the question.
This warms my heart 🥹
Hope you will have good time for your trip to Asia. I recommend go to Ha Giang in Vietnam, good place for ppl who love adventure, beautiful scenery with mountainous roads, rivers.
Really awesome to see you discovering at 24 what I discovered much later.
this!!!
Exactly! In 107 days, I will be leaving Italy to explore China+South Korea for three months🤓Asked for an unpaid leave and I couldn’t be happier!
Yay You!  Travel is magical and wonderful!  So glad for you that you discovered it!
Beautifully said! I’m teary eyed. Thank you for this post!
The more I hear about this type of thing happening the more excited it makes me for my first solo trip at the end of the year (and the idea of quitting my stable but boring job and being a nomad)
Remember…everyone dies but not everyone lives. Welcome to the club my friend.
Same here.  Quit my 'good job' and bought one-way ticket to India.  Backpacked around the world for 4 years, making destination decisions on the fly.  When Eastern Europe opened up in 1990, I lined up for my visa.  Who knew the Trans-Siberian has a connection from Budapest?  That's where I met my soulmate.  Married 30 years.  And we still travel (as opposed to going on vacations!)
this is wonderful!
Same, went Mallorca alone and found an American Italian, get to know his Italian family, tradition and culture in his hometown. I would say Italy would be a life changing trip. He somewhat changed my perspective on life even thought we don’t contact anymore. Every solo trip made an impact in my life, best decision ever.
In 1991 I volunteered to go to what was then still Czechosolvakia to help small businesses. I have now lived in 10 countries and visited a further 60. It is a big world, live it, visit it, or read about it.
I need to do this I’m in the same boat sort of.  I’ve traveled to Europe, Mexico, and much of the US younger but I’m getting older by the day. I’ve had a lot of tragedy in my life the last few years and have felt lost and bored. I make decent money and can afford if I save and work hard. Like you said it makes you a better person. I need it badly. I know this because I need to heal my mind and soul.
Bro has been epiphanized
Eat pray love vibes
Not connected with your post, but by reading it, I noticed something I had never thought about before. In the past our grandparents when they were young (well, depending on your age and country, etc) they were poor yes but had a lot of free time and marrying was easy. I'm not joking, lots of grandpa age people here (Italy) married by walking towards a girl and asking if she wanted to know each other to understand if they were "marriegable." Instead, more "recently" lots of our parents' age people here married the elementary school classmate or the neighbor, etc. Our generation instead? Is the one that if want to have a decent living wage has less time to spent in serach of a woman and in the same time dating became something really hard to achieve and really hard to progress. Something went wrong for sure.
Your story is truly inspiring! It emphasizes the importance of stepping out of our comfort zones and embracing new experiences. It’s easy to get wrapped up in work and forget to really enjoy life, especially when we’re focused on success.

Deciding to travel to Italy allowed you to meet new people and gain a fresh outlook. Solo travel gives you the opportunity to reinvent yourself, and it’s wonderful that you made a special connection with someone during your trip.

You’ve highlighted the need for a balance between career and personal fulfillment. Life is about creating memories and having experiences, not just achieving goals.

Planning a longer trip to Asia sounds exciting! It seems like you’re ready to explore more and fully embrace life. Your point about not waiting for the perfect moment is both powerful and encouraging for anyone feeling unsure about traveling. Overall, your journey illustrates how travel can lead to personal growth and positive change!
Glad my country is so significant for you. Always welcome in Italy
When you talk about reinventing yourself, I totally agree. When I was in high school, I made a school exchange with a foreign school, so I went abroad, very far from home. I felt free and happy because in my own Country, back at the time, I was considered a looser…while during my trip I made many long life friends from other Countries and even received an offer to work for a TV show for kids! I could not accept the offers burocracy reasons (I had to go back really very soon, while they wanted me to change plans and stay…it was impossible for me).
The experience really gave me a significative boost to my confidence and even if almost 20 years has passed, I still think a lot about this travel. Now I prefer to travel alone, if possible, for the same reason you say. Solo-traveling is the best.
Reading this post as I am sitting on a train headed to Florence … we’re on the same wave length. As a successful business owner in the US, for the first time in 39 years, I’ve actually experienced life the last 2 weeks. 

Cheers
As an Italian, I’m really glad it did ❤️
I totally get what you're saying! I started solo traveling when I was 20, and it’s one of the best parts of my year. It helps me appreciate the present, connect with new cultures, and gain confidence. Every trip leaves me feeling refreshed and more open-minded. Not being able to travel these past few years made me realize how much I miss that sense of freedom and discovery. I’m planning to get back into it next year and can’t wait to create new memories!
Ffs
I’m enjoying a trip to Italy with my two children who are now in their forties. We are connecting better than we have in years, though we have always seen a lot of each other. What a wonderful experience.
I wish I wasn’t Italian so I could experience this crazy shit while traveling to Italy.
life balance. Nothing new
[removed]
You’re 24 and you already think your life is slipping away?
[removed]
Wait what??? Can you tell that story? I'm confused and curious!
Love it!
Funny you say that, because I actually dated a few girls from back home purely because they loved to see what adventures I was having over the years which made them attracted to me. Girls reaching out to me, over social media, that I would have never really had a chance with if I approached them on the street.

Eventually it is also what my fiance and I connected over as well and hear we are, planning on getting married next year.

I definitely think the appeal has a peak shelf life though. Either you are young (18 - 25ish) or older (45+). Otherwise it can look as though you dont have your shit together and probably have zero wealth to your name which will not attract other folk in the 'stable / kid making / house buying period'.
Can you describe how you found her ?
Love it! 
This was me. I finally did a solo for my birthday. I went to Curacao and did all the things. It was pretty amazing.
How does one fund oneself to travel full time without a job? 

Do you know any other people online or off who have gone through with it? What are their contexts and methods of earning money?
Are you american? If you quit to travel, go for 6 months or longer. Otherwise just take unpaid leave for 4 weeks.
  Had so many opportunities to do this.. wish I had.now I’m old, tired, and too scared to go alone
Love this!
What do you do remotely
Ouch
Are you AI?
Life starts slipping away the day you are born. It could end at any moment. You're missing the entire point of this post.
Are you AI?
I was just trying to convey that when you travel it opens up a new world and new possibilities in your life that you would not expect otherwise (and most of the time, for the good!).

Up to that point, I have been divorced twice. I swore that I would NEVER get married again. 

When I traveled to Turkey I was not expecting that I would meet my sole mate and turn my life in a direction that I was never in a million years expecting!

We met in April 2023 and by January 2024 we were married! I live in İstanbul most of the year until her USA visa gets approved (usually 20 months after applying).

I have never been more happier in my life than I am now.
We were friends in high-school but hadn't really kept in touch.  After I came back fron my trip, I rented out my apartment and moved back home while figuring out my next steps.

She actually lived in the same city as my parents and we somehow reconnected.  I can't even remember how anymore but I do remember telling her that I just got back from a big trip and she became super interested in hearing about it.  So we met up and 10 years later we're married with a son.
You can pick up travellors jobs with little effort. I stayed at a few hostels I really liked and didnt want to leave so asked if I could work for board which they agreed too. Stayed in the hostels for up to 6 weeks at each one, just changing out the beds and general tidying up / washing, in exchange for a bed and breakfast. Then at nights I would run the bar crawls and get to keep tips (Americans are the only ones that tip).

I also spent 5 months in Austria as a chalet hand. While it was summer I just emailed a couple chalets asking if they needed winter workers. One got back saying yes. Free accom, food, beer, Chalet van, Season Pass & a few hundred Euro a month which I didnt even need to spend.

If you go for anything less than a few months, I wouldn't even bother looking for work, just enjoy the free time. There are cheap ways to travel and still have a great time, usually this is the best way as it tests you and takes you out of your comfort zone which is ultimately more rewarding than staying in hotels and having everything served to you.
> How does one fund oneself to travel full time without a job?

Using savings. That's it. I've spent the past 5 years just saving more or less while working full time.
I'm from the UK. I get 25 days per year of annual leave but if I use all those days I have nothing left for the rest of the entire year. What if I need emergency days off to do things? It's a bit sketchy tbh.
Just do it man. Don't make the same mistake you used to.
You're the youngest you'll ever be
Nothing to fear. Just a lot to learn. It's only too late when you're dead.
Just do it! There are a lot of older solo travelers out there. Trust!
Genuinely have a wonderful journey, pray.

God kept M safe on his travels on adventures you ofcourse wouldn't believe. 

M 39 The richest in Debt UNEMPLOYED MAN IN HUMAN HISTORY (partly thanks to the most incredible travels and some incredible people met on them 😊)

Have a beautiful day 🙏
I am a freelance digital marketer by trade, but I am currently launching my own startup.
this post is AI too
I am happy for you but i am not trying to spoil the joy of happiness but sometimes people from poorer countries would marry you just to get USA VISA
This is illegal though correct? Working without a work visa outside your home country.

Unless you’re a Schengen citizen doing it within Schengen.

But then you’re kinda stuck within Europe and can’t travel to 9/10ths of the world unless you build up savings


And yeah I do travel and lodge for cheap but I do spend a lotta money on food and some on drink
Fair. I assume what you aren’t using immediately you’re investing in whatever gives good returns in your home country.
Why are you gambling that you will need an emergency day off to do something? Just call in sick, you cant get fired for being sick. you also shouldn't be using your annual leave for emergencies. 25 AL days will equate to a 5 week holiday when accounting for weekends off, that's a nice little trip but is still more 'holiday' length than 'travelling'. [This article ](https://www.smh.com.au/traveller/reviews-and-advice/the-difference-between-travelling-and-taking-a-holiday-20180903-h14vie.html)does a decent job at articulating the differences.

Otherwise its simple, take unpaid leave, or quit. Not sure what field you are in but it shouldn't be too hard to find a new job within a couple of months. Folks always avoid travelling for the fear of the future. Its why people on their death beds always end up saying 'I wish I did more in my youth'.

From 19 to about 27 I would work for a few months up to 6 months, then quit and go travelling for the remainder of the year with my largest trip being 14 months.

Because I liked travelling so much and despised the concept of work, I eventually worked toward a career path that allows decent pay while only working 6 months a year in my contract, on a 2x week on 2x week off roster. 

I will say, once you get a partner though, travelling is no more. Then it is just holidaying and sight seeing. You will never get the same rewards that solo travelling permits when with a partner. So before you settle down, just take the leap of faith. After a couple weeks you will completely forget your previous life and it wont even become and afterthought.
Yes, I agree and thank you for your concern.

We all do need to be aware that this is a possibility when making decisions. I feel (and believe), however, that my significant other does not fall into that category.
Its an unethical life pro tip, but if you are working for board, its in a grey area. If you receive a cash then yes, its off the books. It is very common and no one really cares about a backpacker working for board.

You want to know another Unethical Life Pro tip? If you 'lose' your passport and apply for a new one at the embassy, it comes with no stamps, extending your Visa.

Rich people exploit poor people for personal gain, so don't ever feel bad about finding a loophole that hurts no one but can benefit you. Its a part of travelling, look at hobos for example, just out there living their best life.

Like someone else said, Holidaying is relaxing downtime, but travelling is an adventure. Rules tend to get bent when being adventurous.
Believe it or not, no. I'm not smart enough for that type of thing. All my money is sat in a standard bank account. I have £50k saved. Hoping to use £20k of that to do hopefully at least 8 months of travel
I get 3 instances of sick leave per year. After more than 3 instances I have to have a meeting with my manager about how my sickness is affecting the job and how they can *"help"* me. I think more than 5 instances it's a disciplinary. So most people just use vacation days when they need to go the doctors. Or use 2 instances of sick pay for the whole year so they don't have to have the meeting.

>Folks always avoid travelling for the fear of the future. Its why people on their death beds always end up saying 'I wish I did more in my youth'.

Yeah I get you. It's mostly just the safety and security. This job pays decent and nearby where I live. It's a scary thought to leave it. I can understand why people get comfortable and never go anywhere. It's just too easy to let the years go by and you have nothing to show for it.
As someone from a poor country it just bothers me those from rich ones complain all the time about illegal migrants who are just trying to feed their families while they go to poor countries (visa free often), work illegally and nobody bats an eye.
an easy way to make a little money while it sits is to open a cd account with the extra. if you know you won’t be traveling for 6 months you can set the 20k aside and get around 500 extra. basically a no risk investment and practically pays for a plane ticket
Good that there’s a more than decent buffer for sure. Best of luck man
Ahh yes, I forgot how poor Switzerland, France, Sweden, USA, Poland, Latvia, & Austria were. I feel so bad for these impoverished communities for working in their hostels cleaning vomit and poop from toilets, dealing with drunken violent backpackers, while getting absolutely $0 for it besides waffles in the morning and a bed to sleep in. Please accept this apology.

In saying that, if you are from a rich country heading to a poor country, the majority of folk wont work a local job for $1.50 a day farming seaweed, they will be relying on their own savings.

In my experience its usually the opposite. Folks head to higher paying countries on holiday Visa's and end up working where the dollar is stronger.
You seriously think you have it worse than an undocumented immigrant?

Also, nobody is trying to deport you even though you work illegally and racists don’t launch hate crimes because of it.
I am sorry that people are attacking you. Many many countries don require to report this kind of work as it is under the minimum you have to declare. Thanks for helping out in the hostels. Without people like you hostels wouldn’t be functional!
This was my first original composition ever - from 2010
Title: Piano Sonata No. 1

Movements: One

Key: A minor
The minor 58th is my favourite interval too.
Is your name John Cage by any chance
My 4 year old son used to play your piece all the time.
Hey! I've played that one! Didn't know the author until today. 

Is there an orchestrated version?
It's not even in sonata form...
Whats the tempo?
Infinite, eh? So it's still playing
Eric Satie would be jealous
Wot no fingerings?
Very demure. Very mindful.
Took me a while to figure out which notes they were - such a high and low octave 😂😂😂
Oh I loved Eyes Wide Shut.
I would call this the A-C sonata
Presumably you are still playing it now
Beautiful manuscript.
Shedding a tear at the beauty of this 🙏
I see we had the same
This is the song that never ends…
Weather is so hot my dude wrote an AC in music form
*Wait*

How did you take a picture of the song if you're still playing it?
Lovely handwriting. I can’t read my own scribbling one year later.
Just a thought I had: If you play this track but also moving as the source of sound you could change pitch for the receiver with the Doppler effect without changing what you play 
Also, the comments 🤣
You know what they say, less is more
Are tempo marks and dynamics upto the performer?
I played it in my mind like Salieri looking at Mozart’s score in Amadeus. And like him, I was overcome with the beauty and genius of it. Well done.

Edit: still playing in my head because of the infinite repeat. I’m afraid it’s going to interfere with my daily life.
Still playing to this day.
You can also add infinite percussions lol
beautifull. Absolutelly Astonishing!!
As a person that only plays by ear and has no idea how to read sheet music the first thing I thought was
Hmmm you play it infinitly?!
I can hear the melody
Mine was about the same but it was the Bottom 3 and top 3 notes. I think i was about 5
I couldn't even play half the notes on my old upright.
You're surely are a better composer than Edgar Allan Poe
are you the descendant of eric satie
not going to lie, I'm kinda into it....
Prokofiev would approve!!
Ahh yes. The song Satoshi Nakamoto started playing.
Ok but who reads that high C in 8va instead of 15 ?

Nice handwriting tho, which I think is the main takeaway here.
Eric satie is that you?
yaaaawn.....  this is humorless plagiarism of *Celestial Music for Imaginary Trumpets*," by Tom Thompson.
Ah, finally something on beginner level!
Add some pedaling, dynamics and tempo and you have Ligeti's Musica Ricercata. dum Dum Dum dum dum Dum Dum dum
Okay thanks, that actually made me laugh out loud, masterpiece. :'D
This made me smile lol.
Wanted to try it, can't stop now.
Still better than serialism
Beautiful
It's a 52nd, not a 58th. (In music we use inclusive counting)
John Coltrane
Pretty sure his name is Nils Frahm.
(OP's alt here)

That's great news!
Your 4 year old must have had unusually long arms
It has an exposition at least
220 bpm
If you listen closely in silence, you can still hear it. Oh wait, that's prob just tinnitus.
Help... It's been 14 years, I need to rest
You a nose and a toe to play this Sir.
Lugubrious, even.
(I'm OP's alt.)

You may already know this, but the two notes used in the piece are A0 and C8, which are the lowest and the highest possible note playable on the standard 88-key piano.
That's good lol
It just goes on and on my friend
He plays it with one hand

Duh 🙄
Assuming you have an 85-key (A0-A7) piano, you can play a C7 in place of the C8 (I'm OP's alt)
It's not the same without the bot
John Coltrane
The giantest step.
With only one theme
My short ass could never play this at its full potential
Well that explains it exactly as I read it lol
Stran-gers  
Wai-ting  
Up and down the boulevard   
Their sha-dows  
Sear-ching in the ni-i-ight
Excellent. I'll give it a go then 😂
There was a bot??
Einaudi critics will love to hate this.
Why so many insecure travellers?
I joined this sub because I thought there would be some helpful solo travel tips etc but every post goes like “Is it normal to eat alone?”, “I caught a cold, there’s 6 months left of my trip, should I just go home?”, “I don’t feel like X Y Z, is that normal?”

Why?
Youth, inexperience, and a lack of people in their life who they can talk to about this stuff.
Insecure people are more likely to post looking for validation
SoloTravel is full of people that don't like solo travelling, or don't know how to have fun being alone or they are running away from their personal problems. Reports of entire trips "ruined" because they didn't talk to random strangers in their hostels are always amusing to read.
People who are insecure think travel will magically cure them of insecurity. 


When that doesn't happen they come to Reddit for answers
I have a running "meme" of sorts between a friend and I with so many of these posts. Every single "does anyone else..." or "has anyone ever..." type posts are almost always so silly when you actual think about them. My friend and I will send these to each other with the caption, "NOPE! YOU'RE THE ONLY PERSON IN THE WORLD!"

Mostly, people just want external validation and yes, like you touched on, it comes from a lot of insecurity or lack of self-assurance.
Eating alone is an extremely common insecurity that I can't relate to. But it can be indicative of how hard they or their circle judges people. I hate this world lol.
“I’ve been in Asia for 3 hours and not found myself, should I go home?”
The secure travellers are too busy enjoying their time rather than bitching on Reddit LOL
Secure people don’t have to ask, and a bigger proportion of nervous people on anonymous sites like Reddit.

I think it’s okay honestly, that is how you learn. Once they’ve done it a few times they’ll be fine.
My reason for joining this sub was literally because I didn't have a travel partner and wanted to know more about good travel experiences for solo people. I never really understood the hype of making friends or meeting a lot of people - I'd rather do that at home since I can likely actually see that person again one day.
Traveling alone can be emotionally intense especially for first-timers, but also just in general since you're on your own surrounded by the unfamiliar. 

We actually do redirect a lot of first-timer/newbie/anxiety questions to existing subreddit resources in the Wiki to reduce frequency of repetitive posts, but we don't want to delete all posts where someone's having a bad time because it's simply a reality that travel isn't always positive.

I try to always put the "Hardships" flair on those posts to make it easier for people to skip over them if not interested.
Social media tricked everyone into thinking solo travel is easy.
Here's the wild thing about this sub: Most of the question posts here are first timers going for a minimum of three months.

That's crazy, right? Venturing on your own for the first time and aiming for 90 days, but that also explains why you see a lot of those posts.
I loved being a solo traveler in fact when my friend was there she ruined my vacation always bringing up issues. When she left I was free and I got rid of her once I got back so I never had to deal with her BS again.
Cue the downvotes but seriously, so tired of it. I got a boo-boo, should I go back home? Why the fuck do you need a bunch of internet strangers to make a decision for you? Do you want to go back home or not? Get a spine kiddies. “How do I make friends? I have anxiety and can’t talk to anyone 😭😭😭”

Maybe get off your phone for starters and go ask a group what they’re up to today and if you can tag along.

Wants to travels solo, cries about being alone
People mostly post online when they find themselves in a situation where they need exterior help. So all you see here is people asking for help. It doesnt mean travelers are constantly looking for help and validation. It means you only see those who do, when they do.
While therapy has never been more normalized,  we still haven’t normalized experiencing negative emotions that are brought forward by common but stressful experiences that 95% of people could overcome, plus social media filters convince people that having negative emotions is rare or “doing it wrong”, I’d imagine being steeped in social media from early adolescence would only make this worse
There is a lot of autism and mental illness on Reddit (I mean this literally and not pejoratively, it's what lends to the prevalence of hyper-fixation and people getting way too into their hobbies, as well as increasing the likelihood you run into people who prefer anonymous communities because socially they don't fit in well elsewhere). There are also a lot of teenagers and young adults on here. If you really pay attention you'll be surprised at the number of people on Reddit posting who admit they signed up "years ago" when they were 13 or 14 years old, so there's going to be plenty of first-time, low-budget travelers who probably don't have it together posting basic questions and being overwhelmed by small stuff. 

The "one bag" sub-reddit is another good example, comprised largely of young thrifty travelers who share the extraordinary and often amusingly bizarre things they'll do to avoid checking in luggage, to the point where you have people bragging about their poor hygiene and discomfort in order to go down 10 more ounces in bag size. Etc etc.

Traveling is a big broad world and the travel subs are a very small slice of it. Most people don't behave the way the people do on these sub-reddits but I think, especially for young and impressionable people, it's easy to forget that when you're browsing and that turns into a competition to offer the most extreme examples or behave in the most precious ways.
Redditors….
Solo travel is an internal journey of self discovery, whether you realize it at the time or not.      I started solo traveling when I was 19, in the 1970’s, and am still traveling solo 50 years later.    I actually loath the idea of traveling with someone now.

But I really enjoy the posts about new travelers encountering their insecurities, their loneliness and their doubts.    Those are the magic moments where we are offered the opportunity to learn  about ourselves away from the security and noise of our home base.       If we stick with the journey,  both outward and inward, we are able to embrace the wonderful opportunity to grow.     We return from our travels a wiser person.  

I think this is the place to express fears and doubts.      Typically our friends back at home base have no idea at all about solo travel.     

And…. The secure travelers are not posting here as often because they are too busy embracing the journey.
A lot of these people are young and out in the world for the first time
Thank you, so many posts in here, the solo travel subreddit, complaining about being lonely or insecure. I get that it's Reddit, kind of expect these posts, but it's every other post it seems..
Holy shit, my thoughts exactly. I dream of escaping my life (and love my solitude) and never coming back here again, and then I see these posts in a sub where I want tips, etc for the future; I’m immediately met with whining and stuff that makes me lose empathy or sympathy, and I’m like, “yup, you should leave.” 
…Like wtf are you even traveling? Was it a “grownup” experiment?
Some people are new to traveling. If you're new and out of your comfort zone you're more likely to be insecure about things and maybe post for help. People who travel a ton already aren't posting this stuff.
That's why I left this subreddit. I'm only replying because I saw this post in my recommended list.
I thought the exact same thing.  Its bizarre.
I think you're just in the wrong place if you're looking for tips and experiences from experienced travellers - I also made the same assumption about this sub and realised I was wrong to. By nature of it being titled 'solo travel' it clearly attracts a lot of people who have never travelled alone or who are on their first solo trip and need a lot of hand holding. If you want discussion with experienced travellers you're much better off going to less general subs - either area/country-specific or activity-specific (backpacking, through-hiking, one bagging etc).
Mods do a great job, it's hard work for free. I don't mean to bash it. But there is a curation issue that causes this.

Literally the top 6 "hot" posts right now are all complaining, several of which all have some variation of "thinking I should go home".

The reasons why it happens have been stated but the reasons why it keeps happening are mostly relaxed application of the rules meant to avoid this.

Edit: To avoid this seeming like it's just overly critical and actually contribute, this kind of thing seems like it would be suitable to have pinned threads for, particularly if the sting of "kicking someone while down" with a post removal is in play.
The people posting that they need to know if “eating alone” is normal or catching a cold early into the trip should cause the remainder of the trip to be cancelled should have never left their bedroom.  Clearly, not able to enjoy anything out of the ordinary from their daily, safe routines, should save their money and stay home!
I used to post more regularly here but lately it seems like it's just 20yr olds who are afraid mommy is going to get mad that they are going to London alone.
It’s easy to be smug but anyone can have a wobble on a trip. 

I’m an experienced solo traveller but on my most recent trip I got Covid, had unexpected homesickness and made some stupid decisions that cost me money I didn’t really have to spend.

Sometimes it’s nice to commiserate with others online that understand you and solo travel in ways that people in your real like might not.
Many people are cowards
Solo travel just isn't for some people. Some of you are just too fragile to have fun on your own.
A lot of times it’s just people venting to a neutral space. 

On a deeper note, people have these expectations of what solo travel is, sometimes incredibly misleading. When they get out there, well, they’re still there….
If you’re a codependent person or someone constantly looking for validation,  solo travel can hit differently 

Not to mention, traveling can be incredibly tiring. When we get tired, stress brings out things
Traveling has never been easier but young people have increasingly made it to the age of majority without ever facing any of their anxieties.
You're on reddit
Exactly, I was noticing the same thing lol. I was like wtf!  
I believe is because they got sold on the idea by influencers, nice videos and pictures, but the reality is different...
Is there another sub similar to this one with just trip reports, etc and less of solo travel anxieties/insecurities/support? I find a lot of the posts here could really fall under r/socialskills or r/depression instead. Maybe a rebrand of this sub to something like r/solotravelfirsttime or r/solotravelsupport is in order.
Mental health issues
I love reading people's travel reports but there aren't many of those. Someone did one recently on Tunisia and that stuck on my mind. Loved it.
haha I thought the same. This is the general public!! Insecure, anxious, low confidence
confident travellers don't asking, solving their questions.
Gives me so much confidence for my trip, I mean you just have to laugh at the some of the posts. It's like they have never faced adversity in their lives
Yeah I don’t get it. When ive travelled solo to countries i was alone, didn’t talk to people because i don’t trust strangers, i took pictures using a selfie stick, i ate alone and had a great time. 
It’s scary that people constantly need others to live life
Just younglings discovering themselves
People used to be inspired to travel and EXPERIENCE things from a story, a dream, a location, and now people travel for clout and photos. Go to place, post a photo online, and receive praise. The challenge of travelling is  the fun part and what happens along the way. Now, people just expect a glamorous, perfect social media trip simply by arriving at the destination.
Some people think travelling will magically fix all of their internal problems and are shocked when said problems follow them across the globe
Because a lot of solo travellers who post on this sub are doing it for the first time or are otherwise super new at this. The experienced ones aren’t constantly making new posts.
Some are basically Reddit’s version of YouTube comments like “Who’s watching in 2024?”
I feel a bit weird eating alone in my own country but it won't hold me back. I just find it a waste of money. Venezuelan food truck is all I need 😆

But traveling. I went to the movies alone. Going out to eat for breakfast, lunch, dinner. Was pretty nice and chill. 

So why they ask? I feel a bit weird to at first. But if I don't go that means I gave in to insecurity. I won my internal fight by saying..why the fuck do I need to rely on others to enjoy stuff. Life is already something out of control. I'm not letting others decide if I should enjoy a meal somewhere. And that's how traveling solo began also. 


Maybe they fight that internal fight and are losing against themselves. So reddit the last hope of the insecure traveler 😆
I used to be insecure about doing things solo, but what I did in the olden days of 2000 before reddit was to OBSERVE OTHERS.

I would say this should be a #1 tip for ppl who are insecure.

I used to have ppl tell me how confident I am in going to movies alone and eating alone. I would call this ironic if I wasn't afraid of getting corrected for it by some nerd.
I'm a confident solo traveller. What do you need to know?
Simply put, a lot of people here haven’t learned to be their own best friend yet. It’s probably wise to do that before you go solo traveling. Go to solo travel “boot camp” and don’t hang out with friends or family for a couple of weeks.

Others care too much what others (complete strangers they’ll never see again) think. Most normal people are way too busy with their own lives to care or even notice that you’re eating/drinking alone.

Lastly, many pin their expectations to carefully curated social media posts about travel. 

A combination of these things prevent people from maximizing the enjoyment of their trip.
Wow, this thread is intense! Brought out so many people with silent opinions.
Because it's called solo travel, not solo life.
You're right. This sub is full of people who are solo traveling and hating it. I'm leaving. bye everyone.
I haven't quite landed on the naming scheme yet but there's some version of each subreddit that's like r/solotravel_secure  r/fatfire_secure r/whateversub_secure   
that would have a faq that pushes people towards the more general subs and/or 'frequently asked questions' that could just be repositories of information vs. people that need therapists posting the same stuff daily.
Most people seem to travel with the purpose and expectations of strangers entertaining them.  It is utterly bizarre.
Sigh, I get my comments downvoted when I point this out in this sub.

I feel like there's a lot of post where the people need therapy and NOT advice on solo traveling...
Selection bias. 

Finally someone said it!

That guy who is complaining about having to eat on his trip in japan is still living rent free in my head 😩
Oh weird... I've not been here for the last 3 months. Did something change? I saw tons of helpful articles at the beginning of the year, I thought
Probably a good amount of unrealistic expectations from social media. Travel influencers make it look like you should be meeting locals who are super excited to take you on a spur of the moment trip, make tons of friends in the hostels, and every new culture being exciting and easy to adapt to, and its just not like that
My thoughts EXACTLY, OP. As others have mentioned, it must be a matter of people not being OK on their own and throwing themselves into a totally new environment and expecting it to be Instagram/TikTok perfect. 

If you get no joy out of spending a day exploring your own or nearest city/town, you’re not going to have fun traveling somewhere else on your own.

Learn. To. Love. Your. Own. Company.
For me it's the constant "I'm solo travelling but haven't met cool people to hang out with, this trip sucks". We're all different, we all solo travel with different goals and experiences in mind. But seems odd to me that finding random people asking the way to spend all your time with is the make or break for a lot of people in a SOLO travel sub.
I think these people lack resilience/experience, find themselves in an unexpected/stressful position and need to just vent semi anonymously. Honestly, I’m a first time solo traveller on a 5+ month trip and I am having an absolutely amazing time. I thought I’d be quite anxious and not enjoy it at all given I hate being without my partner normally, but I am having the best time ever on my own across the other side of the world. I feel so open minded and free to make various decisions and take on life challenges, whilst organically meeting people in a similar situation.

That said I think I am quite empathetic and very tolerant of others in general so I totally don’t mind posts that are complaining or insecure, since I can understand them. It’s nice to have an outlet to express negative emotions and it’s kinda sad to see so many judgemental people. Maybe they need a separate sub?
I was traveling with my buddy who got sick and he panic bought a ticket home, on the chillest leg of our trip. Some people just don’t do well when they are uncomfortable and away from home. I also got sick, but I toughed it out and do not regret it one bit.
I used to travel with my great parents in my childhood and youth. When they got too old I didn't travel for a while. I didn't have a friend to travel with nor a partner. If I decided to travel ob my own or even now if I wasn't married I probably wouldn't like it neither and would feel uncomfortable. I travelled in my own country for two days but it was for a job interview. I think I maybe get quickly bored if I am in a strange place and have nobody on my side. But nevertheless if I wasn't able to find somebody to travel with I probably would travel alone right now although I don't like it that much.
Edit: I'm also a bit of a nervous flyer. This would also be a reason why I would be more hesitant booking a flight alone.
Solo travel is about facing experiences so we grow as a human being. I guess it’s a younger person probably not wanting to ask mum or dad so they ask here. Solo travel is a good lesson.
This is the best post on any sub I have found in such a long time.

Sad thing its not just this sub.  
I have left so many subs of topics I’m interested in because of this same issue.

OP thank you !  Thought I was feeling the same in isolation but this and the comments have made me smile a little…

Right now to go leave few more subs…
I have noticed that as well on a women's solo facebook page, but can understand their sentiments. I am 32/F and I haven't done much solo traveling since getting a dog. With that being said, during my early twenties I spent plenty of time going on random adventures and even lived abroad. I believe with the influx of social media and the internet has given people a gateway to venting. I had a lot of frustrating and unfortunate experiences while traveling abroad at a young age, but I always had to be patient or figure it out.

In today's society we are use to instant solutions and results which may attribute to this. Having access to the internet has provided new solo travelers the ability to not feel alone in times of distress. It's understandable imo -- I just never had that option when I was young. Yet, I may have done the same.

Vent away.
I imagine those that are mentally tougher in similar situations don't post about it. You are not getting a clean sample of travelers.
I just thought about the same thing when I browsed this sub. Here are some very recent headings:

* The emotional rollercoaster of solotravel
* I'm sad that my solo trip to Thailand was heavy depressed such regrets but what could I have done better
* Am i suffering from post-travel blues/depression? 
* Quit my job to travel and now I'm back and still feeling lost
* Need tips for loneliness in Japan
* Alone traveling in Japan and my dog died

I mean, I am not laughing at these people but is this the right group? It is cool to get support from people who have experienced the same thing but still...

I always skip the "should I go home after 2 weeks of travel" posts.
Experienced solo traveler here. I’m curious whether people would pay good money for a travel partner to join them, coach them out of their travel anxiety or take them to more novel off the beaten path places. 

Joining group tours is one of those options but you’re not going to get those epic hikes.  Much of the achievement and experience of solo travel is in overcoming the minor inconveniences of language barriers, food surprises etc. Only those that climb the hill will get the views.
Because these people are not travellers; they’re Redditors who travel. The average traveller’s first instinct is not “let me take this issue to Reddit for help.”
Some of us didn't have a rich parent and we rarely left the 50 mile radius...
Confident and healthy people don't need to post, they're doing fine.
Cause kids are soft these days....

&#x200B;

\~Gen X'er
I kind of understand the frustration since they take over the sub, but tbh. These types of posts are worse than the ones they're referring to IMHO. At least the newbies looking for reassurance over basic shit aren't jerking themselves off in front of me for no reason.
What kind of tips are you looking for?
I’ve had the occasional meet-up — a NZ hostel that includes a welcome drink in the all night bar on arrival, a Singapore one where I shared a bunk with a girl who got a discount for finding me at the airport, and a Buenos Aires place where other folk in the dorm rushed after me with something that had slipped down the side of my bed. All exceptions. One or two places encourage parties, most don’t. It’s still an adventure getting on with random strangers for the short time I’m not out doing my own thing.
It’s also the reality 🙂
As an introvert I love traveling solo.
Most of us mind our pints and don’t bother posting because we manage well. Most people posting are looking for validation or help with whatever issue they’re dealing with. That’s why.
what baffles me the most is a person who never steped out of their hometown going solo to Asia for 4-5-6 months trips, without any prior planning or preperation, and then say, cant do it.

its like gym bro, you need to gradually increase the stress, not like lift 200KG on the first day. take it slow.
Look at the website you're on
insecurity, as literally everyone else has mentioned. 

when you make friends with people at a hostel or something, just popping out for some food on your own feels completely natural and you wouldn’t even question it. 

you know that when you go back to the hostel you will meet people again. 

people that are a bit awkward maybe, not as good at making friends, will question everything they do because they want to be sure that it won’t reduce their chances of making friends friends.
You have to be beyond willing to put yourself in uncomfortable situations and experiment with figuring out how to meet people. Some solo travelers start and think staying at hostels will be the end all be all to meeting people and when it’s not they lose it
Try another sub maybe another site.. until you find something better. people with experience
We see it on other subs too, and I think part of it is laziness. But, I also think that it's a deep sense of anxiety about minimizing the surprises that make life exciting. We're all guilty of this. For example, I look at several weather apps before I bike commute to work, and I'm trying to stop, but when the answers, that often paint the wrong picture, are right in front of you all of the time, it's so easy to get sucked into assuming that every experience will be the same and risks will be mitigated with more information. 

Side note: I really miss the days of Lonely Planet traveling where we'd rock up to a hostile bar and be forced to make friends to get info. I still have tons of friends from it.
Much like pimping, it ain't easy
Some people like the idea and thought of solo traveling, but when they are actually traveling they get scared and insecure. Social media makes it look so easy and fun, which it is, but it’s not for everyone to solo.
Insecure and unexperienced people post about everything whether it be job opportunities they have never interviewed for or couldn't land or hack, vehicles they have never owned, or things they have never done.  There are people out there that can answer every question, but they are not typically the first to post as they don't stick their neck out unless asked.  Never reinvent the wheel.  In school we were taught to have our own intellectual ideas.  In real life you ask colleagues and you copy things that work.  It will save you a lot of grief.
People tend to post here if they have issues. Sure some people also post funny/scary stories, trip reports or tips, but nobody will post something like "I'm doing great on my trip and nothing's wrong".
I’m ecstatic because I just read about another woman who travels solo by choice. I thought I was a bit of an anomaly, I enjoy meeting people etc and I also enjoy traveling alone and taking my time to do what appeals to me.
Was thinking the same thing ahahah
I’ve been on the same boat, traveling alone is hard and for almost every person u realize human company is a lot more fun/valid than an insane view, or old monument. Etc…. 
  
Especially when ur younger the whole travel scene is all focused on partying it’s OD, the whole backpacking culture seems that way too, so when people aren’t doing that then they get worried
Ten years ago I couldn’t fathom doing solo travelling. But nowadays with technology, a strong sense of curiosity and the ability to be self sufficient has led me to really enjoy solo travelling. I also think it doesn’t have to be all or nothing. Sometimes I do want interaction so i sign up for a walking tour or a food tour so I hang out with other folks. I do think Reddit attracts more people who need some form of validation that they aren’t weird or alone. I see a lot of posts of people being scared to eat alone or not meeting people or getting burnt out. I live in Madrid so the way I travel Europe isn’t long trips, I just do a few days at a time when I can so I don’t really have that perspective of travelling for months on end
I would guess it’s because the SECURE travelers aren’t even posting or reading here. They’re too busy TRAVELING.
I mean solo is travel is hard and often romanticized. People come here for help when they get a wake up call. 
I eat alone even when I'm not traveling so I guess it's normal? 😂

I don't know about you folks, but I actually get anxious when I have to travel with other people.
I have travelled since I was 16 mlstly in Europe, on my own on a veryyyy low budget, like sleeping in trains and also got annoyed with a lot of those posts. But its just reddit. 

Sometimes you're lucky to find a good tribe sometimes you are not. 

I think, I was more looking for sharing stuff about travels, safety and learning cultures, not necesarrily a specific culture, but like the ground rules others follow to learn. 

I'll go first. Here's on the top of my head what I do. To learn about other cultures:

1. Watch children's cartoons of said country (its a good way to learn about some core ideology, cultural values and requires a low level of knowledge/experience) 

2. If you dont learn the language, only a few phrases, learn quickly filler words and like interjections.. also mimmic their accent, even if you speak in English. 

3. Pursue sports, games and dances, preferably local, but a lot will translate to any language. You dont need the same language to do stuff together. 
Nothing beats a game of Scopa in Italy, Salsa in Spain, a game of chess against an old fella in a Hungarian termal spa or playing volley on vulcanic beach sand. 

Most european countries will also have their own folkdance. Its so easy to join, because its kinda made for drunk/high groups.
Eating alone questions I can understand. Many vacation spots are not accommodating, some are openly hostile to singles. Local culture also sometimes frowns on people eating out alone.


Hell even at home. I was asked to vacate a picnic table at a roadside food stand because a family wanted it.
I would rather travel alone than with people. Being on a plane, in a hotel room, eating, sightseeing are all better alone to me. Being with someone else changes my perspective.
I overthink traveling by myself a lot before my trip. But when I land it’s business as usual.
Glad someone else made this, I’ve been wondering..
Well that is depressing! I just started using reddit but I was hoping for good solo experiences, recommendations, tip & tricks, and such. I've traveled solo mostly to Europe as far as overseas, along with Canada & the Caribbean, but around the US the rest of the time. I love it!
I think Reddit attracts more anxious and socially awkward types
Some responses here truly lack empathy. Not everyone travels solo because it’s their preference, and you have to start somewhere. 

I began traveling solo in 2003. I began with a group tour and some here would claim that’s not “truly” solo. So what? It was a giant leap out of my comfort zone, and in spite of not having the best luck with other travelers on my tour, I kept traveling. 

Today I’m in my early 40s. I would prefer to travel with someone else (hopefully a romantic partner in the future), but am still traveling solo as I’m not letting my life pass me by. I still get nervous at times. I also call my parents daily - because it helps them feel more at ease, and I love telling them about what I’m doing. (They’re unable to travel due to health reasons so it means the world that they support my journeys). 

Had Reddit existed when I first began traveling I likely would have posted multiple questions or anxious vents as well. Excluding the posts where the OP obviously is in need of therapy, let’s encourage each other! 

Finally, maybe someone can start a “first timer” or “nervous solo traveler” sub for those of you who want to “purify” this sub of “insecure” people.
Because the platform is there to ask questions. To be honest, sometimes I really am tempted to give a snarky response. But then again, why would I? I'll give tips if I can, if I can't I'll just close the post and read on.
Not a lot of people travel. My husband and I are the only well traveled people that we know. So I guess I kind of get the questions.
Excellent post. I had the same thoughts. Obviously most of these folks aren't seasoned solo travelers. I don't understand their fear and lack of self-esteem. Solo travel is the only way to go. It's significantly more rewarding than traveling with others.
I wouldn't call them insecure but [usually, new] travellers who are experiencing things for the first time. Everyone reacts to things differently but I'd say it's normal for people to get nervous when they're facing unfamiliar/new situations. Many just want some sort of affirmation that things are going to be ok.
Read Jonathan Haight’s excellent new book, The Anxious Generation for a detailed explainer. Cliff notes - gen Z is an anxious maladapted mess secondary to a childhood lost on SM and smartphones. Anyone who is causally observant should already know this.
What's wrong with insecurity or being scared? Especially when new to solo travel?
Cowards who can’t bear to be with their own thoughts.
Dude be nice lol
People really ready to judge and demean in this thread. 

People approach things in different ways. 

If you have some salt loner tips and tricks post them... Be the change you want to see. Don't moan about others choices.
A lot of it is getting out of your comfort zone. Eating alone is ok and feels normal once you've done it a few times.
This actually should be helpful. Because you might be in a situation where you are not comfortable too. And this is normal.
So finding answers here seems relevant to me. Don’t be too judgemental
I won't really call it "insecurity". They are all just experiences, feelings, vulnerabilities - which are all  valid and I'm  sure we have experienced during solo travel at least once or sometimes.  When I read some posts here, I get an idea what to avoid and how to better enjoy my solo time traveling. I also learn to adjust my expectations and accpet the norms of solo travelling.
I try to be understanding but the type of posts the OP mentions but they are difficult to relate to. I've visited 50+ countries over the past 25 years and most of them solo.

To be young and staying in hostel is about as fun as I've ever had in life. If you can't find friends and romantic partners in that setting, I'm not sure what advice to give lols.

I do think young travelers are as skilled and passionate as any other generation was. Social media and Reddit just skews our perception.
I'm massively insecure and have not yet had my 1st solo trip but I'm planning it for later this year. I've e not asked any questions yet but seeing other people like me reasures me that I'll be fine once I do my 1st trip
Wondering if the people complaining about this are male or female? Only because as a female, what I'm really asking oftentimes is "Am I at particular risk for being harassed/drugged/assaulted if I eat by myself in certain parts of this new city? Is it safe to visit a doctor or hospital here as a solo female traveler?"
People travel solo for different reasons. Not everyone who travels solo prides themselves on being some sort of magical introvert of sorts, and that’s okay. It’s totally normal and human to feel a little emotionally overwhelmed or lonely when traveling, and especially when being in a new place by yourself. They come to this subreddit to hopefully find guidance and people who can relate. That’s okay.
Losers post on reddit.

Well Well Well..
People are pansies. Period. Learn to suffer, folks. It's good for you to be uncomfortable, to have shit happen and to have to figure it out, to hear an argument with which you disagree, to see a symbol you don't like o that makes you squirm a little, to have someone say something you don't want to hear.  


Weakness is rampant in the world. It's gross.
How dare inexperienced people ask for help and guidance!
Solo travelling can be very scary! Why can’t we have more compassion for people that feel insecure? It’s already so strong + powerful that people set out to explore the world on their own. I had all these insecurities as well on my first solo trip and I didn’t seek validation online but I still felt them. They still held me back from enjoying the experience fully. It’s like exposure therapy - the more you do it, the more comfortable you become. No one starts off solo travelling, making all the friends, seeing all the places for the first time feeling 100% confident. It’s scary, it’s outside of your comfort zone. Do it anyway because you’re doing it for you.
I agree. Too many crybabies that need to toughen up. Pathetic
Damn i mostly just feel for all the people who probably feel called out by this post
Everyone starts somewhere. In my travels I first stayed with a friend and host who spoke English. Then I went alone in an English more tourist town. Then I went to more solo adventures in places I didn't speak the language.


Each step required different skills at different stages. Just eating alone is where some start. I needed to learn how to love adventuring alone and learn how to take care of myself. I needed to learn that I could enjoy the company of strangers.


It's a process. I think of it as the heroes journey. You start with getting out of your comfort zone where ever that may be.


Help those who struggled in the ways you struggle. Have compassion for those who are stuck where you were stuck. 
Because it’s Reddit and people ask questions.
The first step is often the hardest.  Go easy on them
When I went to Mexico solo, the resort gave me a 50% off rate (I still don’t know magic word I said but I’d never been so lucky) and I spent the whole stay feeling like I didn’t deserve to be there.
Redditors are generally more insecure than most I think.
Anxious generation; insecure,  and it's reddit.
Dude you're on Reddit, on a sub for a demographic made up mainly of people who have chosen to spend long periods of time alone and as far from home as possible... what did you expect?
Involuntary solo traveling lol. Imo they don't have anyone to trip with or ask and probably have some problem at home so they go with solo escapism and finding random brief companions elsewhere. Just means they're highly inexperienced in life and not comfortable with themselves.
Absolutely nothing wrong with that. Being insecure is ok. 

In particular, being insecure when you're inexperienced, stretching out of your comfort zone, when it's the first time you do something it's ok.

Let's not be assholes.
The word "insecure" is often used as if being "insecure" is inherently irrational or revealing of some emotional or psychological defect.

Actually: in some situations people are insecure - and if being in a foreign land, often a poor one, with poor medical provisions, surrounded by strangers, strangers whose language is just random noises to you, who can talk about you without you knowing what they are saying - makes one feel "insecure" that might be quite reasonable and natural response because: one IS NOT SECURE.

For most of human history: being surrounded by alien people who you can't understand was probably a frequent prelude to being killed.

Solo traveling, also, I implies frequently defying the societal norms in the culture one lives within, sometimes in subtle ways - sometimes in less subtle ways. Defying societal norms is dangerous - it's "deviant behaviour" which is tolerated because one is a foreigner.

So: a simple breach of table manners can lead to an escalating situation that becomes dangerous. A lot of people dislike "foreigners". 

(e.g. some guy in a restaurant in Vietnam got really angry with me once when I poured soy sauce on my rice instead of dipping the rice)

As a guest in another country, it is wise to be insecure. 

Walking around Afghanistan in my favourite tie-die vest and pink short shorts: so proud of my security and self-assurance. It is likely I won't last long.
Don’t you know how much traveling takes you out of your comfort zone? Traveling challenges everything in your world, it triggers you, pushes you. Unless you are some sort of emotionless narcissist
This may be a controversial but I think all too many people now want to be bubble wrapped when they're traveling solo. No exploring independently, no rash decisions, no going somewhere without a booking etc. I'm also pretty sure a large majority have their phone location switched on and shared with someone at home. Those people can then panic when they haven't heard from their friend or family member for 6 hours and call the local police.
I love solo travel and have followed  a women’s solo travel group on FB for quite some time :  I repeatedly find that they all have different definitions of solo travel.
It is definitely not for everyone . Their annoying insecurities are repeatedly posted just like here on Reddit.  It’s annoying and there isn’t much way around it.
If you think about it, your post is no difference
Solo travel is by far the best way to travel bar none 😆😆😆😆
Is this not…a discussion board?
Honestly, if you’re looking for nothing but “positive vibes” and aesthetics I recommend Instagram “influencers” but this just seems like the reality of amateur traveling to me, and nothing to do with insecurity.
Solo traveling is like speed dating you go to a new place you meet people connect with a few then you move to a new place and start again 
I permanently solo travel most days it's great my trick is that I have no expectations if I go to new places or go to places that I have been before 
Just remember you're free to do what you want when you want it gives you inner strength a lot off people don't get to do what your doing so live in the moment
I think it's the world now. Most older people don't give a crap what other people think.
Insecure people are more likely to solo travel.
This is every subreddit, Reddit attracts insecure people.
This. Also a lot of first timers. My first solo trip I was extremely nervous and had the mindset that I would run back home at any sign of trouble
Or help
I’ve come to realize that the majority of people posting in this sub are not traveling solo by choice. 

They really want to travel with a partner but between the depression, crippling anxiety, social awkwardness, and lack of compromise, no one really wants to travel with them.
/thread.

That’s like every sub on reddit. Find any topic and you have some anxious over thinker looking for validation or support. Which is fine but this isn’t a support sub I don’t think and the posts annoy the hell out of me.
This.

Also, in general people feels more secure to show their own insecurities behind a nickname. On Facebook where most people have name and face public for example, there's little to none of these "I'm going one week in Japan, will I get murdered?" threads...
Also people experienced in solo travelling are likely not browsing this sub a lot. It's people interested or new to it.
I don't do that, do I?
Does being inexperienced always equate to being insecure..?
Yes partly that but solo traveling is also a really, really hard thing to do so when I think when people are panicking or feeling out of place they come here and ask those questions as a way to vent. As fun as solo traveling can be it can also be a very stressful experience and people want to know that they're not alone in their feelings.
Yeah, it’s the clear inability to have an enjoyable time alone that gets me. Like do these people never do things solo back home? I feel like finding friends during your travels should be secondary to actually experiencing the city/country you’re in. But so many people in this sub are seemingly miserable because they aren’t able to find a friend in their tour group or hostel and are considering ending their trip because of it. It’s so bizarre to me.
Yeah I read one recently where someone was thinking of canceling their trip to Iceland because there was too much solo time without much of a hostel culture…

A lot of these people are really looking for a party. They’re not about solo travel at all.
I feel like it’s a terminology problem too.  For me “solo travel” means a trip my myself to do what I want when I want.  I’ll sign up for group tours, and if I happen to have a nice conversation that’s great but I’m not traveling by myself to make friends.  I think this whole “stay at hostels and have life changing experiences with new BFFs” thing used to be called backpacking, and could be done alone, as a couple, or with l a few friends.
[deleted]
"no one else in hostel, should I just go home?"
There needs to be a new sub for ActualSoloTravel or PurposefulSoloTravel
I agree. I travel a lot, very often solo, and honestly it
never occurs to me to approach or speak to someone on their own. If it happens organically then fine. I started to feel bad after reading some of these posts that maybe I should reach out more. BUT then came to my senses lol. I often travel alone to see the sites but also to take care of myself, not others. I spend 10 hrs a day talking to people at work and home.  Just need breaks.
Thank you. I thought it was just me noticing this. These people really don't want to travel solo. Getting on a plane by yourself,  but then expecting to gain travel buddies on the ground is crazy.
This cracks me up too-it is with sheer relief that I complete a day devoid of all random conversation.
Yeeep I know you’re right because I resemble this comment. I like reading about other people’s experiences. I WANT to be the person who can travel alone though.
I don’t mind travelling alone, but it’ll always be my goal to meet new people. I think if I didn’t I wouldn’t be completely satisfied with the trip. So that’s exactly what I do. Flew alone to a concert in Brussels last week(Ado Wish tour), ended up meeting 13 new people, and having amazing two days. I feel like people are looking for a trick or a workaround to meeting new people, where there isn’t one. You just gotta overcome your mind trying to hold you back, and start talking to someone.
can confirm. am starting out on a solo travel experience. definitely running from problems.
Seems like there are two types of solo travelers.

1. People who get really annoyed traveling with other people. Or just get annoyed with people in general and want to go somewhere alone to relax and recharge.

2. People who don't have anyone else to travel with so they go alone and stay at a hostel in hopes of meeting other travelers. Then they are disappointed when some rando at a hostel doesn't want to talk to them.

I am number 1. I have to deal with bullshit at work from other people all the time. When I travel, I don't want to talk or interact with anyone. Japan is heaven to me.
I think it can help. It forces you to face your insecurities quite harshly which can definitely help _some_ people.
My travels help me a lot with my social phobia...
Wherever you go, there you are.
I don't think they want answers.  They want people to reply "I'm sorry that happened to you."  And reddit is really good at that.  It's an echo chamber for fragile people.
For me it did cure (most) of my insecurities. But not magically it took a lots of work. I had to constantly go out of my comfort zone. But some day it just clicked. 

So going traveling is a first good step. But then the work starts!
I mean it will definitely help!!
Or cure them of anything. Travel doesn’t heal you, you only take whatever you have going on to another place. That’s why it’s called baggage.
I love the “am I the only one who….” (Insert very common thought pattern or action). it is truly remarkable how it really does seem like they think they are the only ones
The “am I the only one…” types oddly infuriates me
But, can I get your validation?
It also never seems to occur to people to try eating alone in their own town. I do this anyway, because I find solo dining to be very relaxing. Maybe it's an introvert thing, liking your own company?
In my experience it’s a lot of young people like 18-25ish that act like this. Most of us grow up and stop giving a shit although there are sometimes those sad 30 somethings that still act like they’re in college
I always wonder if those people starve themselves because they cant find anyone to eat with them lolol
True but also pretty easy to get past it by eating alone 5-10 times lol
It is more how people seem to need approval before doing anything they aren't used to.
The main reason I don't judge those posts is because I used to also fear eating alone... when I was like 19. Now, the thought that I'd ever be scared of eating alone is laughable to me. I don't mean that in a judgmental way. I know a lot of folks on here are in that age group so I assume most will grow out of it with time - as with anything else.
For me personally it’s tough when I look like im not from the place. Unless I have something important to do I jus prefer to get a meal on the go like some street food and keep walking
I believe it's a generational thing.  I'm Gen-x and eating alone was pretty typical and there was no judgement.  We were just getting a bite to eat and chilling.  Often people (wait staff, other people in the restaurant) would strike up a conversation with you.  Many people ate alone in the same restaurants.  
The Millennial generation is much more judgemental about everything and sees a person being alone as being an outcast.  Eating in a restaurant as a whole to that generation is supposed to be a social event with loud conversation and 'look at me' vibes.  So it became less socially normal to eat alone.
I think the Gen Z (being children on Gen X) are more secure being independent.
My family finds it fascinating that I greatly enjoy going out for dinner and a movie alone.  One of my nieces is the same, and this is novel enough to occasionally be a topic of conversation.
idk how you can go through life in general and not ever eat alone? Like how do you get to adulthood without ever eating alone somewhere? its not even a travel thing. weird
I think it’s especially true that people having a good time don’t need to look for advice about how to continue having a good time. Whereas people having a bad time may want to reach out for some advice.

We’d love to see more trip reports though where people share the highs and lows of each trip.
100%. I will ask very specific questions of some subs if I really have to, but otherwise I don’t even think about Reddit when I’m traveling. I find it weird the amount of people who are in the middle of a trip and spend a lot of time posting here.
Absolutely
I never see anyone giving real advice. For example the, “how do I make friends I have anxiety” posts in the sub. Someone suggests to spend less time on the phone and gives actually advice like find a day tour or something people are doing and ask to go with. That comment just gets a lot of replies like “not everyone can do that, blah blah blah” and instead sympathizers with generic responses but no actual advice gets upvotes.

Like did you want advice or just people to feel sorry for you? 

More than likely it’s the persons fault because they’re on their phone the entire time and expect friends to happen
I see similar shit on travel tiktok. It's not just Redditors.
I asked this question yesterday, about how people who normally don't talk to strangers at home, suddenly feel required to talk to strangers abroad.

Like, if the purpose of their trips is to meet likeminded people, surely you can do that "here."

Sometimes I wonder if they're just looking for an excuse to be someone else since travelling and temporary friends actually lets you do that.
Yeah exactly. Having to alter my travel plans to cater to someone else (esp a stranger) sounds like a nightmare
Yeah on one hand idgaf but on another hand it I do get insecure about being a solo traveler who doesn't focus on mingling with others. I'm a true loner lol.
If someone wants solitary travel then absolutely do that, but many of us enjoy trip connections even if they are fleeting, nothing about traveling solo should require you to be solitary. For some people “travel experience” includes the people even if it’s a class, a tour guide or a fellow traveler. I’ve gone back to a place just cause the hiking guide I met was awesome and created the coolest experience.
Definitely a drawback of how solo traveling is often presented by "influencers" and Youtubers - they act 100% thrilled and happy all the time as they wander through landscapes that half the time look magically oversaturated thanks to photoshop. Some influencers present the whole experience in a way that's so overly staged that it comes across as completely insincere. 

I think that's part of why a forum like this can be helpful, gives more room to acknowledge the vulnerabilities of traveling alone. It's not just about the good moments, there are good moments and bad ones too, and it can be important for people to have a place to talk about those weirder/crappier moments that the glamorous influencers don't acknowledge in their carefully staged photoshoots. I think it's also part of why Anthony Bourdain's travel shows have mostly aged well too - he was sincere and honest, it wasn't just a constant fake stream of acting like everything was 100% amazing all the time.
I think you're right.

The reality is not perfection and fake IG nonsense. The reality is also mishaps and issues, delayed flights and shuttles that don't show up, loneliness and boredom, overwhelm and underwhelm, sometimes cool people along the way but mostly not, and everything in between.

But that is what makes it actually interesting and worthwhile.
[deleted]
Actually, solo travel is easy. It's the easiest thing in the world
.. no one to ask you what "we're" going to do today..  no babysitting, handholding, shoulder to cry on, none of that BS... Yes, I'm a hard core introvert but I'm not antisocial and solo travel isn't only the best way, it's the only way.
But it is very, very easy, as long as you have time on your hands (and a little money), can go with the flow a bit, and not spend your entire time trying to make the experience meet preconceived expectations. 

People want to sell you travel services, it's not like you're going around trying to force them to fly you places or let you stay in their hotels.

Turn off your cultural filters, open up to how things are done and how people communicate, and it's almost all coasting downhill. There are going to be annoyances but that's the price of admission, so let it go and keep moving.

I do think things have become a little harder with the proliferation of smartphones and cheap data; it separates people from their surroundings, keeps them from diving in to the language, and using directions rather than maps keeps people from knowing where they are. But these are relatively minor obstacles, and anyone can choose to put the phone away.

This is true whether I'm staying at 5-star hotels in Singapore or walking from town to town in rural Africa.
Social media is carefully crafted narrative to get attention.  It is so so obvious but people are fooks.
Before social media solo travel was popular, probably more so.  Those Lonely Planet books were in every bookshelf back in the  90s and early 2000s.  I think social media just made it into an Instagram show instead of an immersive experience of disappearing into a new world.
Social media / nomad content has normalized that when it’s a huge leap for almost anyone
We're looking to encourage more people to post Trip Reports (more about this soon), partly as a response to the fact that we get so many pre-travel posts from people seeking advice before their trip begins, but not as many post-travel followup posts where people actually share their experiences.
Its not that crazy to me as I started that way 20+ years ago. I loved every minute of it and have never looked back.
> Most of the question posts here are first timers going for a minimum of three months.

What?  Most posts on solotravel are "I am visiting Vietnam for 6 days and plan to see the whole country."
This, so much. People, baby steps are a good thing. 

My first solo travel experience back when I was 23 was for two nights! There is no single solution that fits all, but maybe book a weeklong trip first to see if you actually enjoy solo travelling before you run off for three months!
You have a point but if you don't have sharp social skills, it's no where near as simple as just going up to a random group of strangers and asking what they're up to. Even as someone with some skills, I wouldn't do that depending on the situation, without open body language of said group and tells like that. Idk, learning social skills is weird. But I will say solo travel has helped me out tremendously. I think it comes with time and willingness to put yourself out there, out of your comfort zone.
“Coping skills” are unfashionable- you’re now supposed to whine until everything is fixed to accommodate your anxiety so you don’t have to feel anything negative.
….are definitely a strange, probably neurodivergent bunch.
Beautiful, empathetic reply. Agree wholeheartedly. Life is learning and growing.
"The secure travelers are not posting here as often because they are too busy embracing the journey" in general  i fully agree.  secure people are securely living their life and not search for validation online
Would love to hear how your travels have changed as you aged?
Agreed. I cut people a lot of slack on here because I'm also older, and I know most of them will push through and become better and wiser. I cringe when I think about what I was like in my 20's. I know I would have found solo travelling mildly terrifying at that age as well. Hell, I moved countries in my 30's and cried for the entire plane ride.
Beautifully said.

When I started travelling I was also 19, though it was not long ago at all (just almost a decade) and back then I wasn’t really a Reddit user. Had a journal to pen down all my insecurities and found that writing them down on paper was an extremely cathartic experience, and now when I read my first ever travel journal I can see how far I’ve come as a person, yet how similar I still am to that scared teenage dude.

If I had known about this sub I might have posted some of this stuff too, so I always empathise with these posts.

Thank you for being so accepting, the world would be a better place with more people like you in it!
I totally agree. Sometimes, there are some lovely posts with post trip reports or lively discussion on this sub, but there are so many "woe is me, I have so much crippling anxiety in this foreign land!" posts that are just insufferable. And these people never come back to post if they got over it or how they overcame their struggle. It's just never-ending drive-by mental cases.
The problem is the stream of "I'm sorry that this is happening to you" posts which follow.
You seem like a person who would be unsympathetic toward my plight.  I am too old for hostels, don't know how to urinate in an airport restroom because i have two carry on bags, I'm lonely, everyone stares at me, and I am suffering from social burnout.
I just got back from my most recent trip a few hundred dollars poorer due to a rental car situation and the flu. Yep it happens!
Older people are no better, most of my older family members genuinely thought I was going to get kidnapped/murdered/beheaded if I traveled alone as a woman because they find the world outside their small town absolutely terrifying, it has nothing to do with young folks these days being coddled or whatever else people are saying about gen Z.
Travel is AMAZING!  You go to amazing places, have amazing experiences, and make amazing new friends!  The constant amazement is amazing!
travelnopics is like that a bit, its just slow in general though
Questions about safety are always taken seriously. I have yet to come across one where they were made fun of for asking whether it's safe to visit xxx city as a solo female traveler.

What OP is talking about are posts that are, in my opinion, seeking validation. They would whine about solo traveling not being for them, and yet for some reason, they are asking if they should continue their six-month-long trip.
Fwiw I would think (or at least hope) that posts related to time-sensitive and safety-related issues, particularly for higher risk folks, would be an exception. 

I think this is more geared to the lower effort, oft-repeated "parents don't want me to/is this for me/I'm lonely/feeling isolated" posts.
People in this sub are so harsh, a lot of those posts are probably young people who are new to solo travel. I used to have pretty severe agoraphobia and going a town over on the bus was a huge deal, it takes time to get over that. You'd think if travel actually made people more kind and empathetic like I see folks say, experienced travelers would be the last ones to judge other people for having some anxiety or not being as well traveled as they are.
Y'all are okay. You'll figure it out, I promise. Don't worry about the people here trying to make you feel ashamed for being a little insecure.
Facts. I am not an insecure traveler, but if I hit a problem I couldn’t troubleshoot on my own, I’d come here first. There’s no need for me to reinvent the wheel. Someone smarter than me has already figured it out.
or travel around to begin with instead of getting shit done at home
I’d agree but finding international travel partners can be difficult under the best of circumstances, especially if you and your friends are working adults that aren’t financially privileged. 

That’s how I started solo. I got tired of waiting on other people and sitting in a merry go round of “tentative” plans
Omg i agree with this so much! I recently wanted post, no one is forcing you to travel solo but felt too mean

So many post where people sound like they’ve a gun to their head. If you don’t want to travel solo, don’t.
And I feel exposed.
>no one really wants to travel with them.

No one really wants to talk to them either, which also explains the online posting.
I enjoy traveling by myself. I never have to take anyone else into consideration lol. Maybe I’m in the minority
Traveling alone takes the fun out of it, I went to Switzerland once alone but I only had a few days, but when I went to Switzerland with my BFF I still had a great time despite having been there!
quiet sand normal handle weary worry future innate bewildered disagreeable

 *This post was mass deleted and anonymized with [Redact](https://redact.dev/home)*
This is essentially the same process where every sub eventually becomes r/relationships. Very annoying!
I honestly can't stand them any more, whining continuously. I feel like I'm in a kindergarten somewhere. 
Username checks out 
I see you've never been to the Argentina travel / expat groups.
You need to spend more time on Facebook then. 😩 I have never seen such hateful, mean-spirited comments in my LIFE. 
Yeah, I see a ton of how do I make friends posts in the solo travel, regular travel, the Korea sub, and the travel Korea sub. Why are people so obsessed with making friends when they’re somewhere for 10 days? You either meet people or you don’t. Just go do stuff and you will probably run into other people doing the same stuff. It just seems so weird to me to be so preoccupied with finding friends. Join a tour. Do some research before you get there and join some meet ups.
No, no they do not do things alone at home lol.
I've learned a lot of people don't do things alone ever really. Which is fine, some people aren't solitary by nature. I think it's good to learn to enjoy your own company at times though. There's a personality type that does big gestures to break themselves into new lifestyles. So instead of learning to enjoy their own company at home first and then applying that to travel they figure "I'll learn to enjoy my own company by TRAVELING THROUGH 7 COUNTRIES ALONE WITH ZERO EXPERIENCE." It's very sink or swim and many sink. They think the travel part will "fix" them and it usually does not.
Yeah you’re right on the money. With solo traveling you have to be ok with being solo lol that’s kind of the point. I think it’s a mix though of just being at a certain place at a certain day

Like for example when I was in Spain and I went to Valencia, I was busy left and right I had like 3-4 main friend groups of people I met and I was always having to balance who I was seeing at this second etc cause I was cool with so much people. I still talk to some of them 

But then when I went to Barcelona, I didn’t exactly make long lasting friends there. Had a few convos but spent most of the time by myself. However I still had a great time. It was probably the most I walked and I packed so much in the 2-3 days I was there. Explored some museums/buildings went to great vantage points had great food etc 

It’s funny cause if u asked me before which experience I would’ve had at each spot I would’ve guessed that I was gonna be way more social at Barcelona than Valencia but it’s just the way things worked out. But you should learn to enjoy your traveling no matter what happens
Best part about travel is how easy it is to make friends because you're sorta "anonymous", lmao. Worst case you're going to be hundreds or thousands of mile away, big deal. Best case you make an amazing friend!
This is what I don’t understand about this sub. Solo travel is a thing. It’s not travel solo with the sole purpose of making friends. 

You need to be comfortable in your own skin and on your own before you even think of solo travel.
That’s wild. There are definitely places to go that are party Central. For instance, I was considering going to a little island in the bay of Thailand for a full moon. And then I realized that the whole island  is basically an orgy. No judgment, it’s just not really what I’m interested in doing at this point in my life.

A little research would go along way with some folks. But they think coming to Reddit and asking a question is research.
[deleted]
This would be a dream to me personally
there was a post like this about a year ago in which someone tried to make that happen - no idea if it took off. something pretentious like solotravelforadults or solotravel30s
It can help, but only if you make the effort to deal with your insecurities.

Eg, I learned to be less shy and socially awkward by forcing myself to socialise in hostel common areas, going along to events and activities with other travellers, going out on bar crawls etc.

If I had just sat in my dorm room the whole time (and there are people who do that) then travelling obviously wouldn’t have helped. You get out of it what you put in.
It can definitely help, to some extent. But I know for some people -- me included -- a major reason to travel is a desire to break out of routines and the unhappy malaise of daily life. And in many cases if someone is unhappy in daily life... It's due to them, themselves. And no matter where you go, you can never get away from yourself.

That's just what I learned when I was solo traveling. Once the excitement and novelty wore off after a few weeks, I was still unhappy, just in a different way from back home.
Honestly same. As cliché as it is, 2 months ricocheting around Europe on my own did a *ton* for my self confidence, social anxieties, etc. People who didn't know me before then don't believe me when I said I used to be (and still mostly consider myself, internally) an introvert.
While this is true, new experiences can definitely change your perspective and even disposition and personality. Not 180, but a little nudge in the right direction.
Upvote for the BB quote.
This is such a crap saying. I moved from a red state to a blue state. My standard of living is much higher and so is my mood. Your location can affect your mental health.
Either you bring what you learned back home or you don’t, opt for the former
Insecurities aren't logical, they're emotional. Otherwise no one would be insecure.

Making posts like this gives the OP validation and makes them feel secure - emotionally.
They don't, they just want to boost their sense of belonging in the community.
My belief is that the "am I the only one...." posts are just a blatant attempt at karma whoring.  

They know perfectly well that many people do the same thing.  They know perfectly well that their post is moronic.  But they want people to comment on their post, and interact with their post, so they post the most moronic garbage that they know will get a response.
Yes, I think people should practise their Solo Travel skills in their own area.  Make a plan, look at maps, pack a bag, catch public transport, go to a museum, stay in a hostel/hotel, go out for lunch and dinner, wander around, get lost, take a walking tour etc so they can be more prepared for Solo Travel in another country.
Go back to the 90s and early 2000s and you'd see a lot of 20-somethings eating alone, and going to bars alone to meet new people.  Back then nobody found a date online (or at least you weren't going to find anyone worthwhile).  You had to be more adventurous and willing to ditch your comfort zone.
It actually happens. I did a Europe group tour, everyone especially feels the pressure to fit in on these tours. I remember one girl absolutely starving waiting on her friends to get ready for dinner.
I have a colleague who used to commute to the office from another city (plane trip needed) every other week. She then always stayed Monday-Friday. She did that for two years.

Turns out, during that time, she NOT ONCE visited a restaurant - or any other place for that matter - on her own. I was flabberghasted (I travel a looot and have for many years and have eaten out and done basically everything on my own a thousand times). I asked her ok so you don't eat? She's like nope, she has a small breakfast, then a decent lunch and in the evening she goes to the gym or just stays in her room, occasionally she gets room service. Apparently she was so terrified "what others might think" she'd rather hole up for basically half of any month.

I told her no one thinks anything because people are too busy with themselves to bother with random strangers. Mostly, they just stare into their fkn phones anyway.
Yeah. At home I wasn‘t used to eat alone bc why would I go to a restaurant on my own and spend (for teenage me a lot of) money and time if I can eat at home. These were rather my issues when I was young. But while traveling? Fuck that I want to taste the country lmao
I don’t know, I’ve seen some productive discourse on here. Within the last day or two even. Like people expressing burnout and others relating, or introverts admitting they just don’t want to meet people and other introverts chiming in.

There is of course some frustrating repeating posts but that seems to happen in every sub I’m in (even worse on the country specific travel subs, those are the worst lol)
> That comment just gets a lot of replies like “not everyone can do that, blah blah blah” and instead sympathizers with generic responses but no actual advice gets upvotes.

The best advice, which is "Harden the fuck up" tends to bring down votes.
I met people all over. Short moments. Unexpected deep talks just standing around the airport. Or wherever. Quick fun banter. Even exchanged gifts with a woman from.a fulani tribe. She was awesome. (Well I just gave her cigarettes. And she gave me a hand made l
Tiny sweater from the fulani. Was so so awesome. She just gave it. Not about the free stuff
 It was such a cute moment ) 

I met the wildest people. And I hold all those moments in my heart. And I know some people will remember our moments fondly to. Can't buy in a store. Can't validate it today. But it's there. I bet its like vitamins. It does something good to your heart. I'll cherish it forever
I'm good with people doing whatever they like to do. I'm in a lot of travel groups on here and Facebook and one thing that bugs me a lot that I've noticed in the solo travel groups is the air of superiority common in a lot of folks. One of the things people seem to act the most superior about and talk down to others for is the desire to actually be alone. Seems crazy, right?! It's a *solo* travel group, after all! But there are a lot of really vocal people in these groups who seem to think that you absolutely must be on a mission to mingle with the locals, to meet new people, to hang out at hostels, to go on group tours and so forth. It's apparently a crime to want to actually be alone. It's so odd.
Right. One of my favorite days traveling here in Yunnan, China was a few days ago when a random family joined me at my table at breakfast and we chatted; I sat with an ethnic minority (Hani) family on a train ride and talked with them;, then in a café all the tables were full so I was seated with two high school girls who tried their English on me and then invited me to join them on a walk and suggested I go to a nearby food street; and while I was waiting for the stalls to open for dinner there some six- and seven-year-olds on the street wanted to hang out with me and pepper me with questions and take me to a nearby train exhibit hall.

I will never see any of these people ever again, but they all were part of what made that day so great for me. Making local connections is my favorite activity because it lets you learn about the place you’re traveling.
Society needs to collectively delegitimize influencer culture. Seriously. It’s poisonous
To be fair the most beautiful places I‘ve ever been to where when I was on my own. My family and friends would‘ve never went there. But I did and it was actually the oversaturated, real life photoshop paradise.
Haha.  Those mishaps were part of the story.  The IG Millennial crowd is too afraid of being judged.
I agree, however, influencers and such make it look even easier. And some people are gullible enough to believe you can do anything without the massive resources (sponsors, contracts, crew etc.) a pro influencer has. Those people sell products, but also a very romanticized lifestyle that is in fact heavily curated. Hence a person who sincerely believes they could stroll around Jemaa el-Fnaa in a lovely dress will be quickly overwhelmed by the chaos. And then, possibly, they'll come here to make sense of the cognitive dissonance.
I agree. It’s easier than ever but also when life is easier, it makes people less social. I think that’s where people are struggling.
"22 years old, haven't been outside my city at all and have social anxiety half the time, but booked 90 days across SEA where I know next to nothing about culture, languages, or scams. I also booked a party hostel, but worried I may not sleep properly.

Don't have an itinerary, but open to suggestions. I also want to keep my budget at $40 per day including flights.

PS: I'll be bringing my puppy with me"
When I was a young thing following the backpacker circuit across the middle east and Asia I met endless people from Scandinavia, Netherlands, UK, Australia, NZ, etc., who were travelling the world on their own for 3, 6, or 12 months at ages 18-20. 

Of course it's not what most people in those countries do but it's not abnormal either, and it made up the bulk of the travellers I met in hostels. 

Almost nobody I met doing that was from the USA though - I met far more Canadians even though they have 1/10 the population. At that point I had just left the USA after doing a university degree there so I was a little surprised at the shift.

So I think the question of whether had to be normalised by social media is very dependent on people's place of origin.
I’m just saying it’s not supposed to be easy. That’s when you grow as a person, is outside your comfort zone. Why do you travel? Curiosity and probably to see and have new experiences.
Yes, resiliency should be a virtue and something young people aspire to and actively cultivate.
Impressive mass diagnosis skills! ;-)
I now stay longer in each place.  I make friends,  become involved.   No need to bounce around; I have already done that.   I stay in one country for 3 to 4 months.  Deeper connections.  It is about the people now, not the sites.      I have really worked on my language skills.      Avoid speaking English.
I don't know if that's fair. This sub is filled with empathetic people, many of which probably aren't on here regularly enough to want to gloss over those posts because they aren't as inundated as more frequent users. 

There's also going to be new/infrequent users in the same boat that are *posting* it in the first place because they haven't bothered to search or scroll enough to see it for themselves (or they think they're special case). 

You're kind of asking people unqualified to moderate to self-moderate, and that seems like a non-starter.
Exactly. I also came home to a limping dog that needs surgery (he’s going to be fine).
We're not talking about the entire population, we're talking about people already on a solo trip. Of course a generation that is too anxious to answer the phone is going to have problems travelling.
It is, that's why I keep on doing it. But, it also comes with some hard work, more if you travel for months: Looking for places, finding accommodation, keeping an eye in the budget, making sure you don't end up in a too dangerous place, taking a look of weather against what you are carrying. The traveling part, long buses hours, or flights canceled, delayed, red eye flights, big backpack in your shoulders wondering in a new town, also how tolerant you are, your passport(can you travel anywhere? did I miss a online visa?)... and the list goes on. I personally love the whole process, I get super exited when planning my trips. Commonly, people just see the visual highlights on instagram or YT and believe all will be fun and amazing stuff 24/7 when is not the case. Short trips are commonly easier...
We’ve talked a bit about writing a wiki article for “my parents won’t let me travel,” similar to how we have “newbie” wiki articles to redirect FAQs.

But given that sometimes disagreements with parents are rooted partly in cultural differences about parenting, it doesn’t feel like an issue where we can just provide a one-size-fits-all article, and none of us have firsthand experience to base such an article on either.

I always flare those posts with “relationships/family,” to make it as easy as possible for subreddit members to skip over posts they aren’t interested in.

At a certain point we can’t just implement blanket bans on every type of post that people get tired of, but we’re looking to encourage more people to post Trip Reports, more on that soon.
I think the OP is referring to emotional issues, not problem solving.
You'd go here before friends and family?
Also sometimes your friends are a good hang, but shit at communicating and being accommodating when everyone's tired and a little stressed when on the trip
Yeah I’d love to travel with my mates but because we all work within the same sector, it’s nigh impossible to get leave at the same time 😆
Agreed! People can’t afford it, can’t get time off at the right time, have other life commitments…if I waited to travel with someone, I would be sitting here for a long time. Used to have a partner I loved tot travel with, but now it’s just me, so what am I waiting for!
Yes, but some people don't find friends or a partner. They would love to travel but not alone. You also have to consider, if somebody is forced to travel alone, that means travelling alone or not travelling at all because he fails to get a partner or friends, then he is likely to be even more insecure in a foreign country. Ok, he can stay at home but he would miss something.
Not a minority of one, I have just joined!  I'm a Little Old Lady.  Feel the same as you do.
> i've been taking a look at the subreddits that i'm in and if it's an overwhelmingly majority of 'mental health suffering' posts i've decided to leave.

Good for you. Seems to be happening more and more, though. I encounter way more of that on here in unexpected places than I do useful material.

>i started targeting more age relevant subs thinking that would help but men in their 30s still aren't very stable compared to men in their 40s

Age is a major component of it, but I think it's just one component. Because this environment encourages this sort of person to post, I think what you run into is the unavoidable fact that people who don't have it together in their 20s & 30s are also more likely to not have it together in their 40s & 50s. 

I think there are better stand alone forums for informative travel discussion than what is available on Reddit. Problem is, this being 2024, they just aren't that active.
I thought I was the only one. I’m a bit more active on reddit right now and so many subs just devolve into mental health issues. Adulting, the finance subs, the discipline subs, travel, fitness, etc etc. I know times are tough but sometimes my entire feed is people across different subs crying for help. It’s too much
>  that includes finance subs that i was active in

My mom doesn't approve of my investing strategy.  Should I quit?
Don't read it then
Tragic. Indeed.
See, I have good friends but solo travelling is different. I dont mean I wont travel with friends but these are two different things like me and my friends can go to a chill place for fun but sometimes I want experience a country like spain for example without friends cause when you are travelling you will only go to places where you both agree (mostly), but when you are solo than you are free (you know what I mean) and making friends or talking to strangers also feels so good, listening to completely different thoughts or way of life and so on 

This is my point of view based on what I like
Absolutely true.
True, maybe venture outside on the other side of their own town to explore and build confidence before hoping a plane and losing all faith in humanity because you got awiddle coldie woldie.

Omg, a new place here might be a great building step to a new place further away! Groundbreaking! Smh. Done.
During your trip to Valencia when you had to balance your time between friend groups, doesn't that sort of negate the main benefits of solo travel?
I think that’s just it.. some peoples definition of solo travel means they get on a plane alone but as soon as they check into a hostel it turns into a real life movie involving instant friends and unlimited adventures.  That’s literally what some people think. 

It took me awhile to get to the point where I was comfortable enough to be out there solo so I get it
Too many eat pray love travellers that have a romanticized notion of solo travel being a way to find their person or purpose. 

Far from . Those things happen, but it’s more rare than expectations.
There was a thread not too long ago where someone asked if there is a service they could hire to have someone personally accompany them on their solo travel journey. So literally 100% of their solo travel time would be... not solo.

There are also threads every once in a while where people have actually said "it's not solo travel if you're solo."
I just don’t think people are sincere with their intentions. Even to themselves. 

Do you really want to travel solo and maybe organically meet some folks along the way ? Or do you expect constant camaraderie from strangers when you’re traveling solo ?
An orgy you say? 😀
 Very beautifully written !
YES finally! Oh my I do love this freedom. Spend whole day just in museums - no problem, shop specific stuff, Are you tired and want to crash in hotel? No problem! Me and me on adventure with no expectation
Yes! I have traveled solo quite a bit, and have come to the point where I hate traveling with others. I make my own itinerary and hate having to change my schedule for someone else (I know that makes me selfish, which is why I prefer to travel alone). I also hate sleeping in the same room with anyone else at this point in my life (30’s); in hotel rooms, family and friends have snored, farted, talked loudly on the phone or had the tv blaring in the room while we are trying to sleep. No thanks!

I also do some more extreme stuff like swimming and camping in the winter, and I know none of my friends would ever be willing to do that (understandably) so I don’t bother to invite anyone.
I mostly stay in “the whole place to yourself” air bnbs cos I even hate having to interact with hotel staff 😆
Yeah, keeping it to an age group is not cool. I am in my early 50s and I travel solo.

At times, I wish I had someone to travel with. But then the thought of it causes me a ton of anxiety. I don’t wanna adjust my plans to suit someone else. I’ve always had to adjust what I wanna do to be involved with the friend group. No one has ever bent to my ideas, it’s always been me bending to theirs.
Maybe for a day or two or a couple of activities I would compromise & meeting in the middle. But certainly not the entire trip. I think it’s rare to find someone who has the same travel style as you.
I think I know which one you're talking about. I think it had a really cringe name like luxsolotravel and it was for people who could afford to do things other than sit in a hostel all day. With a name like that I doubt it took off.

But really, this sub's problem could be solved if people just stopped gatekeeping solo traveling as exclusively backpacking and hostel culture.
Right here!!!!
U have to actually commit to making growth otherwise u will just get more anxious and depressed
If you're going to airports and new places it'll still help just less
Man I had the opposite experience. Spent a month traveling thru Scandinavia and every day I felt awful about myself bc I couldn't bring myself to try many new things besides going to museums.

I'd walk by restaurants or places I'd want to go in but was too scared to. If anything traveling showed me that my insecurities are so bad that I'm too far gone to properly enjoy traveling alone
And how do you deal with it? Solo traveling for me did the same, it made me comfortable around unknown people, and now I can seem to be an extrovert when I want to, but deep down I still need that me time, and time alone to recharge my social battery. Friends who haven't known me before that, never believe that I used to be socially awkward, shy guy. But somehow, I still prefer to spend time with more introverted people than extroverted
For me totally. My first solo travel was a week to the UK I was still a bit shy. But that event changed me. Traveling alone makes me very alert. Confident. And explorative, more social. And just pop in buildings with open doors. (Sorry family la casa de papela. Didn't know it was a closed party. Jk :p  I mean like open houses. Museums. Neighborhood gatherings)

When I travel I leave a lot of baggage behind to. Your in the moment. 

Unless u have ldr. Don't recommend that shit. Pfff I can't even look at 1 countries images anymore. Bad memories . Chapter with no closure.. etce 

Just fly birdies
Exactly, solo travel creates pressure and alters your routines and surrounding influences, it also puts you in a position to experience many new things in a short period of time with a small level of effort on your part once you arrive at a destination.  That's a strong foundation for growing as a person, but you still need to seize the moment. Seizing the moment is itself a form of growth.
Agree, I hate this phrase. 

I moved to a new city and I’m a totally different person. I traveled on a big international trip and have come back even more changed. Yes I’m still “me” deep deep down in my core, but I have a greater understanding of myself, what I like about others, what I don’t like, more confidence to stand in my beliefs, and a drive to continue traveling. I find my real self when I’m traveling. 

My day to day life is sitting on my fucking couch.
That was a Buckaroo Banzai quote 3 decades before BB.  

Wherever you go, there you are.” The comical saying was circulating by 1955 when it was attributed to Jim Russell within a student publication at Pennsylvania State University in Hazleton, Pennsylvania. The popularity of the adage increased when it appeared in the film “Buckaroo Banzai” in 1984.
It would be a lot less irritating if they framed them as “Who else…” instead of positing a common thing as a potentially unique trait.
Am I the only one who suspects all those people are just karma whoring???
oh boy! That's wild! When I'm on group trips you have to hold on me. I bolt and want to do everything whether someone is with me or not LOL 

last time was pretty funny, years ago when I was on a group trip. I ditched a soccer match we were watching in a small irish town. Later that afternoon, My professor  was trying to pull me out from under a table \[I was hiding from him\]. \[I was at a pub\]. I was arguing that I didnt want to go back to the apartments yet LOL
this is legitimately horrify. what the heck..
I’m actually relieved that you read some actual productive discussion. Every time I browse it’s the same shit. I must say there is a lot less “I’m sad, I have anxiety” posts as there was over a year ago.
Yeah I have to come to find that Reddit is full of the softest most insecure people in the world. A lot of the “issues” people post about come down to just growing the fuck up and dealing with shit, but that will get you nothing but downvotes here
Exactly, they call you a misogynist or some insensitive jerk. Literally just deal with it. That’s what growing is, doing things and being in situations that make you uncomfortable.
The “mingling with locals” thing can be especially questionable advice because IMO it borders on encouraging tourists to annoy local people who are just trying to live their lives. Local people aren’t there to give tourists an aUtHeNtiC experience and amuse tourists
Yes that is ridiculous as well since the best part of traveling solo is to be free of expectations. 

People have a really hard time with self-awareness, realizing our own way is far from the only way — solo travelers connecting feels much better when it’s about supporting each other having the best trip for that person , which can look very different depending on each persons priorities and perspective. People who solo travel socially also get negative comments questioning why we wouldn’t want to be alone basically most or all of the trip if we’re starting out alone.
Its a kind of advertising. Advertising always has been and always will be toxic.


I genuinely believe all advertising should be outright banned
[deleted]
Followed by “I’ve been unable to leave my room for two days due to crippling feelings, what am I doing wrong?”
Idk man there were heeeeaps of americans in tge middle east over the last 20 years, but they seem to have slowed right back down again in the past 2-3 years
For sure. And I don't mean to throw the baby out with the bathwater or sell short the hard work that's gone in to making this a great sub—there's lots of my travels I owe to this place. 

But that's a small piece of a bigger pie that the OP is correct about, imo. The idea of not blanket banning posts is fine but if the breaking point isn't when a genuine, significant majority of hot posts are literally some flavor of that exact content then I don't know what is.
Lol what? Yes of course. Friends and family usually aren't exactly experienced solo travelers, you know?
Well, every post also goes "my friends don't want to hear about my travel" and "my family forbids me to go so I don't get murdered" /s so who wants to ask them?
Definitely, people here have experience, most of my friends and my family don't
Username checks out
I kinda get it but also don’t. If you’re forcing yourself to do something that you believe will only be enjoyable with others, isn’t that just purposely making yourself miserable? 

Cos then you are literally putting yourself in situations you don’t want to be in
I think facebook groups are still a valid source for hyper specific stuff
> Seems to be happening more and more, though

That's probably a sign of how society is going...
hahahaha.  basically things like that.  finance subs are the worst because of the total larp'ers.   People just telling lie after lie that falls apart as soon as they're challenged on any of the details of what whatever numbers their spouting translate into.
Or you could not read my comment. 😊
Which is completely fine. But it's when people CENTER finding friends during their travels that things are more baffling.
Lmaoooo. It’s definitely mostly that people get the wrong perception of solo traveling from influencers. But like trying most new things in life, its neither an instant or easy thing. Hopefully they can be encouraged by the real people on here sharing their experience.
I get what you’re saying but it didn’t for me I loved my time at Valencia. I guess I should’ve worded it better where like I wasn’t overwhelmed I just had plans with groups at different times like I did lunch and day stuff with one group and met with another group for night stuff. It wasn’t overwhelming for me and I didn’t feel like I saw certain groups not enough 

I think everyone has their own definition of solo travel. Like what did you mean by main benefits of solo traveling? For me I don’t need to be with people(Barcelona for example) and I think alone time is very valuable but meeting/doing things and connecting with people is also very valuable for me.
To be honest, that's how it usually is for me 😅
I walked from the ANHM in NYC to the Empire State Building on my last solo trip. No way in hell anyone I’m friends with would still be my friend if I made them do something like that lmao. Having the freedom to do anything is the entire point 🤷‍♀️
I feel this... I love doing things on my own, sure its great to experience things with others too, but ends up being a lot of compromise, and always end up thinking to myself, I'll have to come back sometime so I can enjoy this place the way Id like to.

Have a big trip planned that Im really excited about, and now have 2 friends who invited themselves "Oh Id love to come do that with you!!!" Which...sure they are awesome Id love to do things with them, its not terrible of them to want to join me, and also, it does not spark joy the way they think.  Some people cannot stand the idea of doing anything awesome alone, and think they are doing me a favor by offering to keep me company.

Years ago, dated a guy who would say...I am amazing to be around...Ive spent the past <his age> with myself, and have yet to be bored by my own company 😂 At the time I was like...thats a bit self centered. But now that Im older def can relate to the feeling of genuinely enjoying the time I get to spend with myself...
Honestly, just listening to my gut. I'm happy to go be social and hang out with friends or going to meet strangers, but when I'm feeling that "ok, enough socializing for today/this week," I don't mind taking some time to myself to just relax and recharge. It's all about balance.
Yes, but what if my mom is not supportive?  Should I just go home now?
I’ve seen a few ‘the locals aren’t friendly’ ‘why aren’t the locals speaking to me’ sentiments on this sub and I think it’s so cringey and kind of reeks of ‘why aren’t these foreign people interested in western me’. Do you go out of your way to befriend tourists in your hometown? Doubt it…
I always feel like this with learning a language. Like obviously I think it's nice to try and immerse yourself and know enough to be polite and get by. I took six months of Portuguese lessons before visiting Portugal for my own entertainment just as much as enjoying my travels. 

But like the lady at the checkout at the super market does not make enough to be my ad hoc language partner. A simple "obrigada" is fine and when I go to a restaurant, we don't have to pretend we both don't speak English so I can struggle through every interaction in Portuguese.
Most locals like it in my experience
I think it’s more the “content creator” type that I find dangerous. Am

Someone that’s usually a trust funder or someone otherwise privileged enough to constantly travel. Makes heavily edited videos that end up setting the standards and goals for everyone else.
How so? On the one hand, you have people who are paid for traveling and have everything arranged beforehand by other people. They don't even have to check how to get from the airport to the hotel, let alone learning about local culture.


On the other hand, you have people who are often really clueless about doing their research, assuming everything would work identically to their own country.


Which is why I wrote what I wrote: yes, compared to the 80s, traveling is much easier. But there's a large and growing group of people who are being misled into believing it is even smoother than that, hence all the helpless posts. 
Followed by "I finally went out to explore, but I think a local gave me the stink eye, so I'm back to square one and have *a lot* of feelings to share with you internet strangers."
On my current front page view of the subreddit, more than 20 posts are people asking about logistics of traveling in various places, or sharing trip reports. Maybe 2 or 3 posts are about hardships or travel anxieties. Maybe some of the anxiety threads get more traction or views but it's hardly the case that "a significant majority" of posts are about anxieties or family struggles.
Indeed they are! I got rid of my Facebook a handful of years ago, not for any moral reasons just that platform became divided sharply on political grounds and the main feeds were inundated with the stuff, so I don't participate in the groups really but keep a burner to be able to look stuff up. It's incredible how much of small town America functions almost entirely through Facebook groups these days.
Oh sorry, by benefits I meant like not having to compromise with others, having flexibility, focusing on yourself/your desires, etc. but I get you. I initially understood it as you being overwhelmed and pulled in different directions, but if you had a good time, then more power to you! 

I think people’s conception of solo travel differs. For some, it just means you left your original location alone, but you still focus on finding connections and companions throughout your trip. While for others, the intention is to arrive at your destination alone and the focus is on doing your own thing with companionship being a secondary (or tertiary) natural consequence.
I had to Google that and apparently it's a 56 minute walk. I do that while looking for breakfast when I'm on a solo holiday!!
Chances are those friends aren’t gonna make it to your trip. They probably wish they could go and think by saying they want to go that they will actually go. But highly unlikely they actually will join you. And if they do, you absolutely do not need to compromise on what you’ve got planned. If they don’t want to do it, they can go do something else.

I just prefer to go alone because I can spend as much or as little time somewhere as I please that day. And I can change my plans on a whim and do something totally different than what I thought I wanted to do that day without needing to include someone else and their opinion.  if you go somewhere and it’s not fun, you can just leave instead of trying to make it work because you spent all this time figuring it out and trying to get there. when you have to manage somebody else’s expectations and mood on top of that, it’s just too much for me.

My sister and her daughter are going to Japan, and I invited myself along. I told her right off the bat. If there’s something that I don’t wanna do, I will go and do something else. It turns out that we travel very similar. She showed me her loose itinerary. I told her about some cafés I wanted to try to visit if time permits in the same vicinity. So we’re in incorporating those into the trip. But we both agree if the lines are super long, then we’re just gonna keep moving along.

I have a few days on my own in Tokyo, and I can do my own thing on my at my own pace. I have this thing for cafés and their ridiculously cute desserts, so I’m going to make it a point to visit those in the morning. I’m also obsessed with Hot Springs so in the afternoons I’m going to a few onsens.
Then you write a list of all the things she wants you do with your life and abide by it whole heartedly because everyone knows the only way to live as an adult is under your parents control.
Depends on where you are. If it’s a major tourist destination where lots of people in this subreddit go, I’m skeptical that most locals would want to drop everything and hang out with the thousandth tourist to pass through that week. Tourists just aren’t that interesting. 

If it’s somewhere remote where tourists seldom go, that can be a different story, though I think tourists should still lean on the side of respecting people’s privacy rather than barging into their business
Do you willingly seek and hang out with tourists in your hometown?
This. lol. I do my best to be careful, observant, respectful and still get yelled at , at least once per trip just based on not knowing something
Snap!  Little Old Lady here.  Early morning walks are the best, whether or not involving breakfast.
Ohhhh Japan is going to be so amazing!!! My son is planning to move there, I really wanted to do a trip beforehand together, but life and finances got in the way. So now, the plan is after he moves there, then I'll come visit him... Def want to go to Tokyo and Kyoto! And yes to the cute desserts! I know exactly what you mean!!!!  I definitely want to visit temples...didnt even think of the hot springs! Okay, adding that to my list..thank you! 😂😁

My son is awesome to travel with..I mean..we've been to so many places together throughout his life, we just developed a great vibe about it. Even though we are into totally different things, we also have a lot we like to do together.  But for us "together" is...splitting up and enjoying it on our own lol 

And yeah, you are right about my friends... I have my doubts they'll make it. I mean, I said big trip its not like an international trip, but this one feels big to me still =)  Going to Bonnaroo music festival..it will be my first music festival, and I just got my RV, so planning to camp there and very excited!  But Im planning to be there the full time, Tues - Mon, and I just have my doubts they'll be able to take off work that long.  

We'll see, but I def wont be sad about it to go solo... 😁
When I lived in Hawaii yeah, nyc too. New people are great
time to giggle and run LOL
Yes, I’m excited. We’re definitely visiting temples and maybe a few museums. I’m bummed though. The Ghibli museum is closed the entire two weeks that I am in Japan. We’re also going to the Ghibli park, team labs and Harry Potter. 

I would like to visit some of their gardens as well. I don’t think I have enough time to go on adventures to find waterfalls or the beach, etc. but that just means I have to go back! I plan on creating a YouTube channel for my travel adventures anyway. So this will just justify buying the camera and spending all the money traveling. Hopefully I can write it off on my taxes.

Edit: what is your son going to do there? That’s really great that you get to go and visit.

I also visit S Korea often. I love it there. Last fall I chased  fireworks.
Ohhh the Ghibli museum looks so cool! I just sent it to my son, I wonder if he already knows about it! That sucks it will be closed while you are there, but also like you said, solid excuse to go back to visit again  😁 

His plan is to go there to teach English.  He first majored in art, then animation, with a plan to work in a studio there for movies or video games, but then recently decided that whole industry was too stressful, and so he changed  over to a linguistics degree. 

Hes pretty much all set up as far as the school he will be working with there...he taught himself Japanese, and took the levels exam (you get paid more if you know the language at a certain level), and now just finishing up his degree so he can head on over. Im super proud of him 🥰 Very excited to be able to go visit him there...even though I miss him so much already (and he only lives 10min away from me lol)

I would LOVE to go back to S Korea! I was stationed there, near  Wonju which is such an incredible city, also visited Yongsan all the time.  It was all so amazing, everything about the country, the people...the food. The food!!!! lol!  I miss all of it so so much!
I wondered if he was teaching
 English. That’s great. I think he’ll have a really great time. I taught English in South Korea and really enjoyed it. The kids are absolutely adorable.

Oh, I forgot to tell you to have fun at the music festival. Sounds fun to go for the week and stay in your RV.
My first piano composition 
Here's a snippet from my first piano composition "Embark!"  

It's a composition I made inspired by 'water'- from the treacherous tempests to the serene stillness of the sea. I learned it on piano first but the transcribing turned out to be more fun than I thought!
Sounds nice! 

But this will be far easier to read if you are consistent with your use of sharps and flats. Decide what feels like the home key to you, stick in the corresponding key signature and then renotate based on that. You should find it comes out looking much more straightforward.
This sounds really nice!

I think someone else mentioned this already, but the reason it's so important to know music theory as a composer who's going to notate their music is that you can end up with extremely difficult-to-read scores like this one if you don't spell your notes/chords according to their tonalities/functions.

Here's a line of your score with the proper key signature (G# minor) in place and no strange enharmonic use:

[https://imgur.com/a/syjehpn](https://imgur.com/a/syjehpn)

Not a single accidental needed because it's entirely diatonic, making it substantially easier to read. I really love theory/notation, and I really love encouraging composers, so feel free to hit me up if you want to talk about further about any of this! Hope to hear more of your stuff.
Damn this sounds awesome. Can I learn this piece if you don’t mind sharing the music sheet lol
I love it. So beautiful. I don’t know if you will take it as a compliment but for me it could be a Pokemon OST, have the epicness yet it’s peaceful, the change of rhythm and so on … Great work!
You need a key signature
Sounds good but I feel like you could use more silence in your writings. Makes it more emotional. It’s very packed.
As a terrible pianist, I am filled with jealousy.
So beautiful, thanks for sharing. Any inspiration from Final Fantasy X-2 Piano Collections?
[deleted]
Stunning! Please share music. 
Good luck with the competition!!
Had to save this. Beautiful piece with some japanese video game/anime vibes mixed in. Loved this!
please play it for us and post it!  sounds cool.
dammit. sounds good. now just gotta find someone who can play it. lol.
it is a lovely piece. I heard some Hisaishi influence. Great job OP
This sounds like the main theme of a video game in my opinion. Love it!
Sounds good! But i have a advise... If you hold it back a little i think its would be better. Sometimes little is more.
Beautiful work!
This is very good
I love it! The coda was insane. The first four chords reminds me to interestellar
This looks like it would be a bitch to learn but so fun to play once you'd perfected it.
Wow, sounds really beautiful! I have listened to it a few times over now. Are you going to publish the whole piece?  
I have to ask since you write that this is your first piano composition, did you go from zero to composing this? As in, you went from never having composed anything in your life to composing this? Or have you composed for other instruments before, but this is your first piano only composition? What is your musical background?
Is this actually playable by a human with all those sixteenth notes the whole way through? For a novice like myself, it seems rather impossible. Also, it sounds more like a techno song. Maybe change the instruments to synths?
This is genuinely inspiring
OK this sounds like a Touhou song. I really like it!!
Sounds great, and very japanese.

The constant phrasing of the melody makes it sound like an outro or climax accompaniment.

Adding a solo instrument with a melody with more movement and different phrasing would make this perfect.
This is exceptional!!
Absolutely beautiful.
Very emotive. I particularly enjoy the buildup to the very fast part.
holy this is so beautiful, I strive to be able to make a piece as well as this one day
Ffs, arp’d 5 tuplets? 🔥
Its a nice piece! I just listened and didnt look at your sharps and flats....! My question is can you play it? Hats off if you can.
It’s amazing !!!??????
It’s awesome 🤩 
I already love it!
I love it, particularly the rhythms and the very interesting arpeggios. This would be a great “show off” piece if I can master those arpeggios.
What software did you use to compose? And what features make it easy for a keyboard to do all that with a computer?
Sounds really damn good! Do you have a video of it being played?
Bro is cooking
I’d be really impressed to see someone actually perform this with the dynamics in the left hand arpeggios being soft enough to actually allow for the right hand single note melody to be heard.
Just click and drag those 5 sharps over from the key pallette, which will make the pianist play at 432 Hz
My first reaction is was written for notation software, not for hands. While playable, it doesn't fit well under the hand and there are better ways to accomplish many of the things you're trying to do, pianistically. The effect, on playback software, is nice. But it could be written better for humans.

There are also multiple notation issues: Mixing sharps and flats is perfectly fine, but not in this case. These chord spellings make no sense. Composer does not seem to understand basic music theory/orthography. And carefully consider use of ledger lines vs cross staffing and/or use of 8va markers. 

Is this written Musescore? Some of the rhythmic notation errors look like Musescore, so I'm assuming. (Also worth notating rhythms correctly.)

As a first piano composition, this is a good place to start. But there's a tremendous amount of runway for growth here. 

This is not meant as gatekeeping, but that would be my legitimate reaction on seeing this on the music desk. It's obviously student work, and student work with solid potential. Keep writing!
Awesome
That is awesome!
Sounds good!
Very nice, would like to play it if you could fix the key signature and accidentals as others suggested.
It's amazing, sounds pretty japanese to me like something form an anime
This would be great to learn. I'll give sight reading it a go. 
Awesome work! So where's the video of you playing it? Hehe
I recently got into composing and damn this is something I wish I could write. As of right now, I am still figuring out how to use Musescore😭.
This is a very diatonic composition notated like an atonal piece, which would make it extremely irritating to read because it slows down the reading by 3-4×. It's the tonal equivalent of spelling words purely by how they sound, with no regard to how words are actually spelled.

You would find this to be an issue if you played it yourself from the score. Look at the scores of your repertoire and you'll see that it cannot be done like this. 

There are also places where you might want to try the voicings, fingerings, etc., to see how idiomatic they are to play. 

It's a good start but I recommend you dive deep into theory for a good amount of time!
This looks like a lot of the film scores I study.  Most of those use no key signatures and are loaded with accidentals.
That's a good point- I did go and alter a lot of them but kinda gave up because musescore just does whatever haha

I also tentatively created the sheet music off of having already composed it on piano so I honestly didn't know how much detail I should put into refining the score especially since I don't know that anyone will learn it... either way you're absolutely correct 👍
I appreciate it but I already went back and fixed it all
Thanks! Yeah for sure 👍 

[Musescore](https://musescore.com/user/85008715/scores/21309475?share=copy_link)
Omg I'll absolutely take that as a compliment! You're probably right- I grew up with all those games and definitely have a nintendo ear worm lol
I was definitely thinking it had Zelda vibes, very lovely piece, thanks for sharing ❤️
Fixed now :)
Yeah the score was just for fun, I know it sucks lol but thanks
For sure
Ooh I've sight read a bunch of Final Fantasy music, wonderful stuff! Subconsciously an inspiration I'm sure
Video is private?
Thank you so much- I just posted the link on another comment so hopefully that works
💜 Thank you
Will do!
Haha it's tough for sure, I'll post a vid when I've got some spare time
Thank you. Gosh I love Hisaishi
I think you have a good point 😊
I appreciate it!!
Thank you so much! I responded to some people with either the musescore link or youtube link so you can find the whole version there, although the composition as a whole isn't amazing.

Currently I study at a conservatory as a pianist/percussionist but don't compose- nearly a decade ago I was really interested in writing string quartets and for wind ensemble back in elementary school haha (they DID play one in middle school) but I haven't touched composing since then. I might have to revisit those to see how good they were...

I think I have a good ear for what I want something to sound like and understand the capabilities of the piano but this little journey has really inspired me to want to get more formal training in true composition. In my conservatory I do a healthy amount of music theory and figured bass shenanigans but I'd say the most useful factor in my composing has just been listening to music and performing lots of stuff.
Yep! I made the sheet music based on what I was playing on the piano
Oh wow that means a lot! For me I just got into a 'feels right' creative workflow which is rare because I'm not really a composer. To be honest, I don't think the whole thing is structurally or academically "good", but I had a lot of fun and am proud of it regardless. It's an emotional journey? Either way I believe in you- if ever have an idea don't be afraid to expand upon it and just create! Music is awesome :D
🍻
I studied percussion… fun stuff in there!
Thanks! And yes I can 😊 Here is the fixed sheet music [here](https://musescore.com/user/85008715/scores/21309475)
It's not my favorite but I used musescore! It's nice having the midi functionality so that I can play a chord or a series of notes and it will be replicated for me onto the page (as long as the note values are consistent). It can be a bit janky but it's better than going note by note
🍲
The whole sharps and flats thing I went back and fixed because I was getting so many comments on it. The score was an afterthought, I purposely disregarded many things to save time because the midi device outputs so many errors. Since I just wanted to showcase the sounds and it's not an assignment for my music theory teacher, I wasn't going for a polished score. I learned this on piano first and THEN based the score off that so it feels really nice under my hands at least. 

Thank you for the encouragement and kind words!
[here](https://musescore.com/user/85008715/scores/21309475)
Musescore was a headache at first but it gets a lot easier. I learned a lot doing this
You didn't see the updated score- also I made the score after having already played this
I know they don’t use key signatures but surely they don’t mix and match sharps and flats to this extent. That’s just a result of the software not being smart enough to choose.
Oh don't worry haha- I'd never write a score like this for somebody else. Btw I revised it in case other people wanna give it shot [here](https://musescore.com/user/85008715/scores/21309475)
Oh yeah, completely depends on why you’re doing it.

That said, next time you compose something, try and work out the key signature before you start writing it down. I bet you’ll find the whole process much easier!
If you decide you want to clean up the score, you could use E major/C#minor (4 sharps) or B major/G#minor (5 sharps), and it will be much easier to read!
Oh awesome!

Edit: another thing that's potentially helpful in terms of minimizing the general "messiness" of things like broken quintuplets, which will result in a sea of brackets and rests, is something like this:

[https://imgur.com/a/BO1YkRU](https://imgur.com/a/BO1YkRU)

All the quintuplets were entered on the bottom staff, and the RH notes were shifted up to the top staff (default hotkeys for this are Ctrl+Shift+Up and Ctrl+Shift+Down to move a note across a grand staff). Then you can notate your melody using the actual durations you want, rather than trying to cram it into the broken running-note figures. Goes sooooo much faster, too.
Woah.. not sure if I could handle all the running notes 😂 I guess I would have to begin learning soon.
Waiting for the performance video now :)
It sounds a bit like this https://youtu.be/9QOq1WrwYzQ?si=Op9vL_yqZYYNAjo1

But ofc yours sounds original in its own way. Great work.
Sorry about that, [here](https://youtu.be/MpzmPr6lm7w?si=w_-yXMCieDIID_13)
Thank you!
Great glad you can. Thanks for the sheet music, im some way off playing it but will save it for another day...
Thanks!
https://musescore.com/user/85008715/scores/21309475?share=copy_link
I see it now and that helps a lot. You might still play it through to discover places that might not be idiomatic, whether it's because of not naturally fitting the hand, or because of awkwardness associated with leaps. It reads like you composed it directly using software rather than at the piano.
Oh yeah definitely, thanks for the advice! Luckily It didn't take too long because I have my digital keyboard as a midi input which helped expedite the whole process (and also jumble all the sharps and flats lol)
I already went back and did that haha
Gotcha
Ah yeah 😅 it's quite challenging sorry... at the very least I'd say the arpeggiated patterns are quite pianistic and flow well once you understand the chord shape. If you give it a shot good luck!
It's all very comfortable actually! I wrote it within my capabilities
Fair enough. I think whatever software you’re playing into will adjust to the key signature giving you a nicer looking score with basically no extra effort!
Yeap, I went through the first few pages just now since I have a few minutes. After studying the chord shape, it gets easier, just really slow-mo for now! Thanks!

Not familiar with music composition even though I’ve done theory, but I’m sure there are sections where there’s change of key signature. I’d be great if those sections have key signature.
Then that's good! It's just how I usually react to Musescore compositions but if you've gone ahead and written it from your own playing then you've done way better than most Musescore posts 😂
(I did look through the score btw - it was the key notation issues that threw me off because that made it look like you were very beginner even though you may not be; the score isn't beginner friendly, which is why I advised to make sure it was idiomatic)
Okay it's all corrected now
I fixed it
Thank you yeah sorry 😅 , I don't mean to come across as defensive, I'll definitely share the performance when I have a chance. I know a lot of musescore post really come across as senseless or impossible, but I assure you I literally made the score based on my playing. And that first score iteration had such jumbled accidentals because it was just for me to get it down on paper but It was worth going for a cleaner look.
No worries. Just out of curiosity, does that mean you usually learn by ear? Because at your playing level, if someone is reading score, they would typically be thinking in keys pretty much all the time. It's not a criticism as much as my curiosity as a musician. Learning/playing by ear is very useful, of course.
I'd say one of my strongest strengths is sight reading, although I can learn by ear, I rarely do it (maybe for a couple jazz gigs). When I was composing this piece yes I was thinking about the tonal center of each section, especially when modulating over the place. 

My digital keyboard allows me to input the notes into music score through midi but it was never consistent with the flats or sharps so I didn't bother. It was a minuscule amount more effort to put in the key signatures but it reads the same to me. 

This score was simply a personal thing- if it was some sort of project or something I was to present at my conservatory, I'd never be caught dead with a messy score like that lol 😂
Got it. I understand so much more now. Keep up the great work! Sounds like you are going on a similar path as I did - music major as pianist and composer/arranging. It's a lot of fun!
Oh that's amazing!! Btw I'm also a percussion major which is why you see so many rhythmically dense stuff in my piano writing (Nothing was intentionally overkill but it definitely comes across that way 💀) Anyways thanks a lot
tried travelling with a friend, confirmed i am in fact a SOLO traveller.
after 15 years of solo travel 1-4 times a year international i tried bringing a friend for 6 days overseas. at first when i started travelling i thought id just go alone because none of my friends could afford the price or didn't have the time so i decided fuck it ill just go and people will join me later. i hit my stride alone and was really crushing it each trip a little more confident. 

well then i made a mistake and brought someone with me. it pretty much ruined my trip. i don't flirt or go on dates when i travel mostly for safety and its just my morals i guess. this friend, in 6 days, ditched me TWICE for a hookup. both times coming back to our hotel room halfway through my sleep and waking me up and ruining our next day by being both not well slept and cracked out. 

i will never bring along another person. its just not worth it. plus, it added so much more stress. "when are we doing this" or "when are we doing that" i felt like a cruise director and also was the main driver as i rented the car etc. i ended up using so much more energy talking to them and helping them, etc. i just now realize im better off alone. its how i flow. 

anyway just wanted to get that off my chest. happy travels for 2024 everyone! its great to be alone!
Some friends are good friends, but awful to travel with. The key is knowing who you go with on your next trip if you decide not to go solo (which ain't as easy as it seems).
I feel like the best option is to travel with someone who matches your travel energy. Don’t get me wrong, I started solo traveling for the same reasons you did and then continued for the same reasons, as well. However, it’s nice on occasion to have someone else who can watch my bag while I run to the bathroom or who will take a candid photo of me. I’ve done a couple trips with other people recently and found that I need someone as into planning and as comfortable spending time solo as I am. If I don’t have that, then the trip is no longer relaxing or fun. I literally have found one person who has fit that bill so far.
I feel you. On a solo trip, I can see all the things I want to see, eat whatever I want, and have complete control over timelines of everything I want to do. Dragging another person along means I have to compromise to some level on what the other person wants to do. It gets even worse when they are indecisive, wasting precious vacation time making a decision, and then complaining about every other decision made. 

And god forbid they have nasty sleeping habits or are so careless and negligent they become a literal liability. 

I sound like a grumpy old cow but this is how I roll.
I think both modes of travel have their own merits.

Travelling alone, as you said, gives you so much more freedom to explore and experience things on your own terms, without the baggage of having to entertain a companion. You get to truly experience a place and talk to locals and take a the time in the world to drink in the beauty of a place.

Travelling with companions is more for the shared experience. I usually do not travel to new places with my loved ones but instead would use this as an opportunity to revisit places that I have loved before and want to spend more time in. You do not then have to rush and feel like missing out on things and can spend more time to talk and enjoy your travelling company. Seeing the sheer joy of my family members when they see a beautiful scenery or taste a new exotic and delicious food is very rewarding. This is something that I miss when I travel solo - the shared experience and happiness of discovering things together.

Choosing the company that you share the experience with is very important. Don't let this one person sour this joy of sharing travel experiences with others for you. Happy travels!
This reminded me of the work trip to Japan when something similar happened. I was going to Japan to scout locations for a movie, was thinking of going there solo, but I decided to bring a 2 person film crew, one was an employee, the other a contractor hired for this job (both young females, recent film school graduates.)

We land in Osaka and while eating our very first meal together, the two camera people start talking about who they have already connected with on Tinder (I think it was that app), some in Osaka, some in Kyoto, some in Tokyo....

2nd night they both go out on dates. They both overslept the next morning, causing us to miss the lighting timing for the first location, and we only make it to half the locations we needed to get to.

3rd night and following morning same thing, they both go on dates and oversleep, and we only get to half the locations.

Then we go to Kyoto. Same thing happens there first night in Kyoto.

So I told them they were fired, the contractor and the employee. Gave them a company credit card for hotels and food and said they were no longer working for the company. The contracted person's reaction was incredible - threatening a lawsuit (I'm an older white female, she is young Asian female). The employee threatened that she would spread the word throughout the industry. We found out the same thing happened when she was hired for a film shoot in Italy - she was fired because all she did was hookup and oversleep (we should have called her references.)

That's what we get traveling with narcissistic adults that have the mindset of a child.

edit to add that I checked with the other co-owner of the company, and our HR dept, and our legal team before I fired the 2. They were all in agreement, so I felt I was doing the right thing.
You brought the wrong friend. Not everyone is a compatible travel partner. People have different travel styles and travel goals and you need to be compatible. 

My last long trip with a friend I figured out we do great for weekend trips, but not for multiple weeks. It doesnt mean i'll never travel with a friend again, just not that friend for that long a trip.
Don't let one bad travel companion ruin it for you. I've gone on solo trips and on trips with friends, and I've enjoyed both. I've also gone on trips with insufferable people, but my solution to that was not to travel with those particular people again, not to swear off traveling with friends entirely.
I pretty much only travel solo now. I like making my own decisions and having the flexibility to change itineraries on the fly.
I travelled with close friends to Austrailia where 1 of them lived in Brisbane. It was 4 of us who where big into fitness and hiking so we were going to do beaches and hikes etc in brisbane, Sydney and Melbourne.

Towards the departure date 1 of the guys brought 1 of his friends without telling us 3 days before we left, this guy who didnt really share the same interests was a ball ache everytime we did a hike and really slowed us down some days, never did anything and always had to be pushed. 'Seen one thing youve seen them all' would be a frequent motto of his, so hard to get him to go to sydney opera house interesting sites etc.

Plus the others didnt swim so no snorkelling or water activities. I spent a few days by myself and went out to the Gold coast before departing and loved it. But I got that return flight with some regret on things that I didnt get to do.

Ive travelled Solo for 4-5 years and have never had the regret I had coming home each time. Execpt recently Egypt where I didnt scuba dive due to the uptick in Shark attacks.

I used to try and ask family and friends but always got 'give me a year and I can plan it etc.' So stopped asking after a while.
Yes just be more choosy who you travel with. If they are also independent and you can do your own things at times I find that much better. Having to make an intenrary for two people sucks.
I prefer solo travel too. I went to national park with a friend and he was way too talkative and I felt drained after few days of hiking lol. I like meeting people on solo trips during tours and it's nice you don't have to be committed entertaining them
lol. I actually did the worst vacation with a friend who I tried hard to get involved in the trip and they didn't participate in anything and I mean anything including "just book the seats and tell me how I owe you" and "so what's this hotel like?" when we're on our way to the hotel. They simply tagged along and within two days of where are we going today and what's next, I was like "wtf am I doing?"
You just want with the wrong person.
I like independent travel and I like traveling with others, but they are definitely different types of trips.  And it does really matter who you travel with.  I have some amazing friends who I love, but could never travel with, so I don't.
I think when travelling with friends it needs to be a group not 1-1 it’s too intense and you need buffers. I went on holiday years ago with one of my best friends and I would never do that again however I have a different friend group where there is 3 of us and it’s much easier as you can remove yourself for breaks without leaving someone alone.
I think the key really is to find a compatible travel friend. For example, trying new food is really important to me when I go somewhere.And I have a friend who is just as adventurous, so it works out well. It would be hard for me to travel with a picky eater or someone with many dietary restrictions.

Also, knowing where you both are willing to compromise and being upfront about budgets and plans is so important. I'm lucky to have a couple of friends I travel well with but I can see why it's hard!
This is where communicating about trip expectations is extremely valuable. For example, when I traveled with my friend to SEA, we had a huge conversation about accommodation, activities and everything which allowed for the trip to go smoothly since the expectations were determined beforehand. For example, communicating in advance about night activities and sleeping habits is important. Also if driving the whole time feels like a burden to you then you should ensure that you and a second person have insurance to split the drives.
Just got back from a trip to Colombia where my friend kept ditching me to chase women and wasn’t successful in hooking up. Made him pissy and miserable to be around. The worst part was the whole trip was HIS idea. He’d been there before and wanted to show me around. On day 2 he tells me he’s ditching me to meet up with a woman from Colombia Cupid. 🙄
It seems like some of that stress could've been alleviated by having separate rooms. I understand not wanting to plan outings with another person though.
Did this friend beg to go on your trip, and basically tag themselves along, or did you invite them?

If the former, then I agree I would be quite annoyed about this, though I still don't necessarily agree with your annoyance towards your friend, which seems to be rooted in judgement rather than actual rudeness from your friend. 

If you invited them, and they also paid for their portions, their half of the room etc. It's not "your trip", it's both of your trips. Should your friend have to adhere to your sleep schedule, and not be able to go out, flirt, do what they want just because you said so? No, that seems rude of you actually. 

Did they bash about the room drunkenly, or are you just a light sleeper and should have gotten a separate room?

Also you say they are annoying you, by asking you when things are happening - but it sounds like you also don't want them to be off doing their own thing. If my friend was judging me on a trip, stopping me from meeting people, making friends, and flirting with strangers (something I much enjoy on trips) you better believe I'd be annoyed and expecting them to fill in that time I would have otherwise spent entertaining myself through strangers and conversation.

I find it strange everyone here is saying this friend is awful, when really it just sounds like they were doing what is fun for THEM, as one should on their vacation.
It’s hard even just figuring out and deciding on a place to go to eat when we’re at home. 

I also don’t invite people along with me when I meet them on my travels. Maybe I’ll meet them at a restaurant or bar later.
Similar happened with a few mates of mine. 

Three of them went to SE Asia for a few months. Two of them have practically the same personality and so were constantly on the same page. The other was a bit more introverted, not quite as “non stop”. 

The two of them loved it. The other said it was one of the worst things he’d ever done. To a point where he actually not only stopped travelling around with them (these being two of his best mates) but actually left the continent to continue his journey alone.
I normally travel with two friends (each of them separately as they are part of different circles), but we are normally in tune with each other. While it is fun to travel as a duo, I had my first solo trip in November, and it was the best decision I made in 2023. I woke up whenever I wanted to, did what I wanted to, and had no one to seem like they have to wait for me, or I wait for them. I agree that it is great to travel at your own pace and your own budget.
Never go on trips with anyone you do not love.
	
Ernest Hemingway


https://andrewbowie.net/why-hemingway-decided-you-should-never-go-on-trips-with-anyone-you-do-not-love/
I travelled with a friend last year. We realised we didn’t actually get on and were very different. Actually she realised this and we are no longer friends. I’d have preferred to go on my own and I probably will return to that country on my own. I love it there.
By cracked out you mean?
I've done it three times recently after 6 years of solo travel. Mixed experience. One friend had such a controlling boyfriend that he drove all the way to our hotel and got in a fight over her travelling without him - then she went no contact missing for an entire day and her mom called me in a panic. She came back fine but they had broken up and now all her sadness was being unloaded for the rest of the trip.

My second friend was a girl I had just met, she was great and peaceful. I hope for more experiences like that.

Third one is very mixed but I lean towards not wanting to travel with her anymore. Not only did she say some dumb stuff to me in the room but the worst thing she did is when we hailed an Uber and our driver was Latino, she stereotyped him during the conversation and I glared at her - I'm black, but my grandma's husband was PR and thus all his family was ours too - she said the equivalent of talking about fried chicken and watermelon to a black person.

Anyways...yeah. I do get lonely on my solo travels as of late but..you truly never know what you're getting when you hang out with someone vs. sleeping in a room with them as neither of the worst friends had been like this in casual bursts.
Ugh feels for your trip, and hopefully you both can be cool about the fact maybe you weren't the best travel partners for one another. I had one friend in particular that we did not jive on vacation together ...we are still really good friends but we didn't talk for months after the trip. We had a good chat about it and agreed if we vacation together again we'll do things differently. 
The last two trips I've done are solo and I plan on doing more solo trips in the future. The things I learned the many friend trips I've done is I don't want a stage 5 clinger travel companion. As in they are ok if I fuck off for the day, I need my space. It's not personal. 

Don't be waking me up at 8am wanting to eat breakfast because you're too scared to eat by yourself at an all inclusive family resort ...🤷🤦 ( For real that happened..she refused to go eat breakfast by herself and got REALLY upset every morning because I wanted to sleep in) WTF. 
I don't like paying for $$$$ excursions that I have no interest in attending either because you don't want to do it solo. Like pirate ship rides with a million little kids. Sooooo. Not. My. Bag. 

The other important thing is I'll always spring the cash and get my own room. Lesson officially learned the hard way.  Especially if it's just two of you travelling...it's just too much time to spend with someone...well, for me anyway !

 Last time I travelled in a group I shared a room with someone who gets up at 5 am and I had just finished graveyards for 3 weeks...completely opposite sleep schedules. And yeah the morning breakfast wake up call. Hence that started my solo travelling lol. 
A great idea is travelling with 3 or 4 people in my opinion so if you need space no one's taking it personally, and they aren't lonely.
I like my own company, almost to a fault I can admit this. I am social for sure, but I need some me time, too.
Lesson learned you seem to like solo travel, wanted a bit of company brought someone with you and learnt people are people, but they can also be cunts.
I’m older and doing my first solo trip to S. Korea for 3 weeks. Everyone is happy for me but don’t want me to go by myself. I keep telling them I want to go by myself. Your experience reenforces my determination to go by myself.
I love to travel.I only have 1 friend who I travel well with. I agree with you that not everyone is a good travel companion.I really love to travel alone. I can dance late or do nothing.
You need to ensure you have the same interests and priorities when travelling with a friend. It's always gonna be hard to tell though if it will work out until your on the trip.
I AM TOO. OMG. I Don’t like traveling with anybody but my own boyfriend. No friends. 

I need separate itinerary and hotel rooms. Maybe I’ll meet up with my friends but I can’t do a full day or nights with them
You can bring a friend along but book separate rooms ? That may be better way to do it. 

Have some days where you do activities together and days for solo exploring…it’s about setting expectations before going on the trip
No, traveling with LIKEMINDED people is the best. Literally vibing on the same page. I brought my brother with me and we agreed on everything.

You obviously brought a noob with you. What did you expect?
You will really know your best friend until you travel with him/her..
I started my solo trip because of the exact same reasons as yourself 

Either friends don’t have money or can’t find the time 

Overtime I have gone on more and more solo trips. 

After some point in time, I didn’t even bothered to ask. Solo trips became a thing. 

Nowadays I don’t even want to join any group trips because there are so many issues/conflicts/arguments
I’ve also found that most folks are not down for hostels. This means, if I travel with them, I’m most likely going to split a hotel room which is obviously more expensive and usually changes the vibe.
Always separate rooms and work out what you want to do together (most likely evening meals). Then do your own thing
Traveling to Japan for two weeks with my best friend made me realised I’d be more sorted to Solo traveling. We got on well but there were times she couldn’t keep up with me and our tastes were different. Planning to travel solo next time, daunting as I may be feeling, I think I can prioritize me for once and what I want to do rather that look after someone else and their needs.
Be very upfront what you gonna deal with. Friends can be travelled with but communication is vital
I have a friend that is always very jealous of my solo traveling but whenever we've taken even short domestic trips together I end up miserable. She's just not someone I can travel with one on one with anymore and have a good time. I've just embraced that at this point lol.

For us it's mostly because I end up being the one to plan everything because she says I travel more and she doesn't care much what we do, but then she makes sure to shit on everything the ENTIRE time. I always try to find fun things to do on our respective budgets, provide different ideas and choices, try to keep up a positive but realistic attitude, etc etc. But regardless of where we go or what we do everything sucks--a really good restraunt? Terrible. World class aquarium? Disappointing. Super cute famous bakery? Awful. World famous museum she wanted to go to? Lacking. Sightseeing like she wanted? Over it. Haunted hotel? She's mad we didn't stay at the even more haunted one next door. The bars we went to? Didn't live up to the hype. Almost the entire trip is like this. 

Everything is terrible, boring, unimpressive, or she's been to better (even though she very rarely travels) and she loudly makes sure I and everyone else around knows her opinions on it. What's weird is that's not her typical style of doing stuff. She's really only like this when she's on trips, but it still is absolutely draining. Then a couple weeks later she will tell me how fun it was and how great everything was, while all my memories of the trip are walking on egg shells and dealing with her god awful mood the whole time. 


So I'm back to very happily traveling solo! There's plenty of people that are good friends or acquaintances that are just not good for traveling with, and that's ok. We can see them when we get back lol.
The very first solo trip I did resulted in intense loneliness and tears. Now, I am the opposite. I would rather cancel my trip then have someone accompany me abroad.

For me personally, the feeling of travelling into a new world & the freshness is better experienced alone.

Having someone with me is doses of reality. I travelled with my best friend and sister this year (separate times), and was exposed to grumpiness and little minor arguments. Totally ruined my day when it happened.

The only time I love other people's company when solo-travelling is when the person is a local. Plus, they can show me around and I feel more immersed in a country with local friends.
It's fine to have differing views about hooking up while traveling but please don't act like you have some kind of moral high ground because it's not your thing.

Hooking up abroad is perfectly fine and not at all immoral or wrong if consensual.

Being inconsiderate of your travel partner is shitty sure, but not sleeping with someone, if that's how they wanted to spend their time abroad all the power to them.

Also was this your friend's first time international? They may have been overwhelmed and just not used to it, or you didn't discuss the itinerary enough to make sure you wanted to be up at the same time.

Sounds like you were annoyed traveling with someone with less experience and instead of helping them you just judged them imo.
Depends on your personality and the vibe of your friends.

It takes a family level of closeness for me to be comfortable traveling with someone, in all honesty. I like controlling the variables. But with the right person, everything is *better*. 

However, with the wrong people, your trip is spoiled. Your friend being shitty to you isn't an indication of your innate preference for solo travel. It just means they're flaky, irresponsible, and selfish, and you probably shouldn't rely on them for anything serious.
I totally relate. Brought a friend on a trip to a city I really wanted to visit. Was miserable and couldn’t plan for shit. Can’t wait to be traveling alone to a new city this month.
I have only ever traveled with my now ex girlfriend.
I'm going solo next week for the first time and am very much looking forward to being on my own schedule.
Last time I went on holiday with a mate I was one crash barrier away from ending up in a ravine on a mountain road. So don't feel too bad about being "the main driver". I wouldn't trust anyone to drive a rental car with me in it these days, not even my boyfriend. I'm confident in my driving ability having driven in eight countries in some challenging conditions, but not so much other people's abilities.

I will only travel with my boyfriend these days if taking someone else, and he is happy to let me plan an itinerary that we will both enjoy (which is different to me planning a solo itinerary I must add). I do all the planning, driving and bookings. The logistics doesn't take me any longer than for a solo adventure because some things it's just a case of booking two tickets rather than one.
Has to be a best friend, have agreed upon plans and ways of travel, and have separate rooms.
I like my alone time. I find the best place to take “vacation” together is an AI with separate rooms. That way you can have fun and alone time. Otherwise “travelling” is a nightmare with someone who doesn’t match you.
i'm about to go on a big trip with one of my best friends, someone i've known for about 5 years. we did a small domestic trip together and discovered we travel well together. we got a two bedroom apartment and that worked well for us too. we're about to go overseas together and got a two bedroom apartment there because of that trip, it's just nice to have seperate rooms to wind down alone when you're spending 24/7 together. she's super chill so i'm actually looking forward to this big trip.

i've done heaps of domestic solo travel so i totally get how good it can be!
Same here, my friend was incredibly late and slow with everything that I was lowkey glad when we parted haha
I have to agree. Traveling with friends is a burden; you see how much people complain about so many little things and the trip is less enjoyable overall.
Yeah and they probably didn't enjoy not getting enough sleep from the hookup either whereas if you know your itinerary you can plan around that and hookup on nights when you don't have to get up early.
I have traveled to atleast 15 countries and have also come to this realization. 
Friends and family always had the same excuses..no money no time off work or no passport,  so I started solo traveling and have now become addicted
SO, myself and my older sister. We are none of us young by any stretch of the imagination, so all pretty set in our ways. We live in the south, sister lives in the north. We all went to Europe for a month, sharing rooms. I was worried we would come back mortal enemies, but we did not. In fact we are planning another trip. My parents took an aunt and uncle from the south to Alaska in a motorhome. They got home and never spoke to aunt and uncle again. It depends on the people, and my father definitely was not a joy.
This is exactly my feelings as well and will travel solo over for the rest of my life. I find it’s also easier to meet people when you travel solo.
I prefer to travel alone. Unfortunately as a female I can’t go alone to most places in the world
Thank you for reminding this. Was about to repeat something stupid again. Me and my friend just aren't compatible in regards to travelling.
Sounds more like a friend problem to me! But yeah can totally relate! With going solo, you don't have to worry about such awkward situations! Feel like doing a day hike? What about just chilling by the pool? When travelling solo, you get to decide what you want to do! Go wherever you want. Eat whatever you want. You're in complete control (most of the time). No need for compromises! It can get lonely every now and then but I'd take that any day so that I can travel based on how I want! :)
I love traveling with others, but I have found a group of folks who know how to travel and share the same values when it comes to travel. There are some good friends who I know I could not handle traveling with, Just like you won’t enjoy it if someone prefers to be in a resort whereas you prefer to sightsee, it’s the same if you prefer to do day activities and they prefer to go out late at night.
I'm actually on a trip as I write this.  Me and two other friends of mine spent new year's in Zanzibar. It was cool.  We basically just partied the whole time.  We were supposed to spend the next couple of weeks going across Southern Africa via Zambia and Namibia.  I got so annoyed with their lack of team spirit, for a lack of better words, that I just ditched them.  I then went to Istanbul for a few days and now I'm in Scotland.  I couldn't be happier to be honest.  Well, the bar I'm at sucks so that could be better.  But I'm feeling like I don't want to group travel anymore.
[deleted]
Recently went abroad with a friend who's never travelled before. We're good friends but I realized traveling with them wasn't the best idea. I am a planner and I asked them to do research and tell me what they wanted to do. Stated we don't have to be with each other always and we can do things independently. They said they would just do whatever I did. That was the big mistake. I booked things and did it for both of us. The trip was a week-long. I wish I had suggested some free time amongst the both of us. It just got too much. Throughout the trip there were moments where I tried to have some alone time, at airport, evenings, and it was brought up later in conversation, or how I wasn't talking always (I need to recharge and don't speak out on all my inner thoughts). 

We're still friends but I would have done things differently. Also I understand that it was their first time so it was overwhelming for them but it doesn't mean that my time is not valuable. I'm also hesitant to make plans with them now even for a simple day out. It happens. I'm trying to look at the bigger picture. I remained quiet on what i felt because if I did respond or say things, we wouldn't be friends now.
I mean using your experience with one friend to generalize how it would be traveling with anyone doesn't sound like the greatest approach but you do you
Yeah I wouldn't want to travel with you either if you judged your friend for having loose morals because of a hookup lmao.
weird enough traveling with friends is how I know who I can be room/housemate with. Traveling with the right friends make all the difference. While solo traveling gives me the freedom to move at my pace and wish, traveling with friends enable me to share dishes, save on car rental, save on hotel rooms etc. But yes, I still do solo travel on some short trips.
Just found this sub, Do you have any destination recommendations for a first time solo traveler? Low budget lol
I think it's a bit unfair to get pissed at the fact that your friend went out for a hookup, you were travel buddies not Siamese twins. If anything I think they were actually quite considerate for opting to do their shenanigans elsewhere and not bother you rather than them bringing their person to the room that you were in. But also how are you annoyed at the fact that they ditched you yet at the same time annoyed when the asked what time you are doing stuff together? I think it's no problem to decide that you are better off traveling alone but to make it seem like your friend was being unreasonable is not fair
Damn so you travel and don’t get laid at all?
You don't sound like fun.
Sounds like your friend enjoyed some 'local' culture. Maybe you can take a page from his book.
Assburger for sure
I enjoy having someone to eat meals with and share some experiences with, but I also want to do what I want to do and am reeeally not interested in compromising on itinerary/pace. I have two friends who are very much "fine with whatever, just tell me what to do" and it's ideal.
Some friends are good to travel with and some are not. Got to setup boundaries and expectations for the trip.  I have a couple friends who I would never bring on a vacation with me because I know how they are in terms of being stingy, likes wandering off, and complains about lot of stuff. 

Whereas other friends some who Ive met over the past few months who are easy going, down for anything like myself and seem open to just have a good time.
You brought the wrong person that’s all
How did he get 2 hookups in 6 days?
Sometimes I feel like this when thinking about going out to eat. 

I’m not a social recluse but I’m fairly introverted and like doing things alone. If I’m going out to eat w friends I do have to be in a very confirmed mood to enjoy the company. If I invite someone to go with me on a whim I usually end up wishing I went alone to enjoy a solo date in my own peace and quiet.
I'm going traveling abroad with a good friend for a month I worry about something similar happening not him hooking up and ditching me but just us having different styles
I did numerous trips with four or five different friends. Every time something went wrong. Either our energy didn't match, we had different interests, our lifestyle and habits were far apart. As friends having lunch or doing something local it's fine. When traveling long distances for a week or two that's a whole different world. You learn a lot about your friend when you travel with them. It's not good or bad, just the way it is. I have been traveling solo for over 20 years and I couldn't be happier. No one gets in your way, your time is yours, you do what you want when you want how you want, no mixed priorities and agendas. Will not go back to traveling with friends. It is more of a nuisance and hardship than it's worth. Solo traveling can be more difficult since you cannot share driving responsibilities and you have to plan out the trip all on your own. In the end, it's well worth it and very satisfying. You know you are there for yourself. I've learned and grown a lot in the process.
Im in the same boat, only travel solo as i know i would end up babysitting and financing friends/family who travel with me. And if anything bad happens, i will get the blame. 

The exception is with my younger sister and an older cousin who understands i come prepared with an itinerary as i love to explore and learn about the history/culture. I also never party/drink on my own for security purposes.
Same. Last time was with my ex a few months ago, but we also traveled together for a while in Colombia and Peru about a year ago. 

Every time, little things annoyed me. Do you wanna go left or right? Do you wanna eat this or that? She also didn't do any research or planning, didn't seem interested in travel at all, didn't attempt learning the basics of any language, and spent way too much time just scrolling through reels. 

I hated the feeling of planning everything alone and having her just tag along. Also because I'm Canadian and she was from a developing country, I paid for absolutely everything.

If I'm gonna be paying for everything, the least she could do is express some interest and research interesting routes or activities or etc.
you have to set clear rules but I feel like if you know your friend well enough you know each others boundries, sounds like your friend was just using this as an excuse and do whatever.
I think you need a friend who doesn't do drugs in foreign countries.
Only travel with others who are independent and comfortable traveling solo themselves.
lol I hear you I travelled once with friends and it was the worst holiday ever ….
Some friends are good friends at home but are NOT good travel friends. Travel is a whole different arena. Not everyone is reliable, has life skills, common sense, etc. that you need for travel. Furthermore, if you’re not on the same wavelength in terms of finances, travel experience (you don’t won’t be a travel coach), food interests, etc then it just doesn’t work. Solo is definitely better for me.
I think most important is to communicate beforehand the expectations you have from the trip and how you travel normally, it sets the tone for good communication. It doesn't mean that you always agree, or you do always what you want but it means that you would respect each other and be mindful. Have you discussed previously with your friend on your expectations?
new year
You gotta get a friend that matches your vibe on trips, trust me it’s amazing.
I absolutely love doing solo travel in Europe by rail and sometimes by plane.
You get to meet so many people from all over the world and a lot become fast friends which you go clubbing with.
Sometimes you end up on wild raves and after that on a cool after-party or after-party cafe or morning clubs playing chill ambient music while everyone is on mushrooms.
Everyone from bankers to people militantly occupying a tenement building to Israelis and Palestinians..all talking and having fun.
It's truly something magical.
You make friends, sometimes for life, sometimes for the evening.
My husband is a bit annoying to travel with in some ways. He has some OCD-like habits, but I live with that every day, anyway. However, on rare occasions we are not seated together on planes. He hates that, but it's a relief for me. Even once I saw the poor guy sitting next to him getting annoyed. I kinda felt bad for him, but still thought to myself "Well, I live with him everyday. The guy just for a few hours."
Luckily once when i traveled with a close friend it was amazing! I felt safe and it would have been most probably not great traveling alone as a woman. Mind you i have traveled solo a lot as well. It just depends on who you travel with.
Just did a trip with a friend. We booked different hotels (For different reasons, but both were blocks from each other). We each had stuff we wanted to do separately and knew that either could go off and do their own thing if they needed to. Just set up boundaries and guidelines for who you're traveling with, and for definitely book your own room.
Problem is you don't know your good friends habits until you travel with them...I did a motorcycle ride from L.A. to Sturgis SD with a very good friend, we saw each other alot less after that trip than we did before. That was 9 years ago hahaha!
yeah ill keep her around, but i wont take her around.
I wonder how we can screen potential travel mates for this... that is the key
I've found the opposite. One of my friends is my favourite travel companion and  when I'm solo travelling in Europe, he'll meet up with me for a weekend or two. We have opposite travel energies. He's like the energeriser bunny whereas I'm very laid back. Like if we have an hour before we have to be somewhere, I'd find a cafe and relax thinking an hour isn't time to do much whereas he'll be like we can do x, y and z in that hour.

I guess part of the reason it works is that it's a small portion of longer trip usually and it's good to get me out of my lazy habits for a short while. Also good for him to step back a bit.  We're good at being honest with each other which also helps.
This is so spot on. I generally prefer solo traveling, for all the reasons OP stated.
However, I have this one friend who I totally enjoy traveling with, it is so stress free. She matches my preference for nice hotels, food tours etc, as well my habit of going to bed after dinner lol.
However, we differ a lot in other ways, but we work. She is not a morning person- I'm a wake up at 0600 and hit the gym or go for an early run to see the sites uncrowded. She doesn't even like breakfast - which I cannot go without.  So by the time I've knocked out my morning activities and had breakfast, she is stirring then we hit the city or beach our mountain...whatever. 
Point is, finding someone who fit makes traveling lots more fun.
Lmaooooo. No. You don’t sound grumpy. I agree with you. I’m picky about who I travel with if I’m not doing solo. I have a good friend who is so go with the flow that she doesn’t care what we do or ask me a million questions. The only thing I tell her is what time we should wake up. I love her. And she sleeps like a log and you won’t even know she’s in the room. 

And even if something goes wrong like we get lost, she’s someone I can laugh about it with. 

When I do travel when her, I end up enjoying it bc I don’t feel any pressure. 

I can’t travel with my mom. She’s so picky about everything and I can’t leave her alone bc she gets confused. lol. 

I feel like I might be able to travel with my parents and friends together tho. Bc I could split up with my friends and my mom will be taken care of by my dad lol 

But I can’t with my mom and I feel guilty about it…..
this is also the reason why I decided to go solo in my travels..  So to minimize conflicts, I see to it that boundaries, expectations and other important matters were discussed before the actual trip..
I think you hit the nail on the head there for me at least. I’m cool to travel with good friends *to places I’ve already been to before.’*

If it’s a new place, I’m going solo, there’s that.
thats why i thought it would be ok, we have both been to this country loads of times before separately. still sucked! separate rooms would have been the wise move here, i guess i wasnt thinking of her doing any hookups/disturbing my sleep.
Okay. Wow. So this isn’t even about different traveling styles. This is about two employees behaving completely unprofessionally in a work environment. 

I am disgusted by that behavior. 

Many companies would fire people over something like this. You did the right thing.
that last sentence! petulant child! yes!

sounds like some people are just all about them and don't think about how it affects others, collaterally. i cant believe someone would behave that was ON A WORK TRIP. unbelievable.
Sounds like a cool job…sorry about unfortunate experience :(
That's just crazy. Sure, hooking up is fun but if I'm doing a trip like that, I'm going sightseeing. Even if the tinder person is a local, why risk the awkwardness? Go do fun stuff and maybe you will meet someone along the way, but that just seems like a waste. Girls can find guys to hook up with any time, instead they waste a bunch of their free time on tinder, which everyone knows is a nightmare.
Looking to hire another solo traveling film school grad who isn't into hookup culture in the slightest? 👀 And is also currently in Asia?
Big yikes.
i will try again, surely. not with this person though.
point taken.
Ughh, I would be pissed if someone brought someone else on a group trip last min without getting it "approved" by everyone! The group needs to be agreed on by everyone. It also makes it risky if the additional person is someone that you don't know.
so true. we're still friends, but i wont be travelling, particularly abroad, with this friend again.
This!
I completely agree. I have a friend who is horrible to travel with one on one but in a group is a lot better.
Yeah they couldn’t drive manual so I was the driver that time. Also I did mention no one else could go in our room so they respected that boundary.
I’m so sorry. It’s multiple layered because you want them to live their best life, but then you’re like, aren’t you on this trip with me? Also then you worry about their safety and such when they are gone. It’s just more than I want to personally deal with. Travel is hard enough.
No she respectfully even let me know she was going with so and so. I told her I loved her and I’d see her later.
Why, I adore this. I’m buying her a copy. Bless you. Undoubtedly she will get a kick out of the irony of the gift. One can only hope. I do love her though.
Exhausted, not well slept. Ratchet.
Ya you never know until you are IN IT. And by then it’s too late. Hope you get more #2s!!
She wasn’t a noob to travel, but a noob to traveling with me. So I guess chalk it up to learning.
It’s ok! We are better off I think.
Fair enough. Budgets are another thing entirely! Luckily we shared the same dollar amount ok.
Yes I'll never share a room with a friend on vacation ever again. If I travel with someone again, I need to know that they are independent people, not terrified to be alone. If I go do my thing for the day they aren't going to take it personally. I have to be clear about this and communicate better. 💯 This is a must!
She’s an experienced traveller too. I wasn’t having moral high ground I supported her to do her thing. Just didn’t want my sleep disturbed.
I agree, when I travelled to SEA I was with a friend who was basically like a sibling to me and it will always be one of my fave trips.
What’s an Ai?
That’s a better idea. We were really moving every night a new place so it was madness. Hopefully you know your friend and she knows you and you have had the talks. I never would have imagined she would do that stuff. I hope your trip is so easy and great. Do report back to us/me. I could use an uplifting friend success journey.
If you’re in Glasgow I love the Pot Still. I think it’s the oldest bar in town. Good for you for turning your own frown upside down. 🙃 people be peopling out there. Sometimes you just gotta be you and that’s awesome that you had the agency to break out of that trip that wasn’t working for you. Hurrah!! Enjoy the rest of the trip!!
This is so great you should make it its own post.
it was more that she came into the room at 4/5am and woke me up to shower, change, rifle through her bag etc. dont care what she does. its not my travel style. but she can do her.
Yeah there’s definitely pluses and minuses.
I made sure to talk ahead of time and I always let my travel companions know that nobody comes to our room for any reason. I wasn’t mad she hooked up. I was mad she disturbed my sleep.
She. At the pubs.
Talk about it now!! Make any boundaries you feel you need to make. Up to and including different rooms or accommodation. You’ll be happier on the trip with clear communication. Both of you!
yes, yes she was.
Well in advance of this trip I said no randos in the room. She respected that. There was no way for me to know she’d do what she did. After the first time I asked her are you planning on doing that again on this trip and she said no and then she did it again.
i think i learned this yeah. separate rooms.
will be traveling with my male cousin to japan for 2 weeks later this year and i'm thinking something similar. we'll plan things together and we can go on by ourselves and meet up throughout the trip.
Smart
I think this is ideal. You each do your own thing, but catch up in the evening to chat about your day.
I ended a friendship after traveling with a friend one last time, in New Orleans, no less. To be fair, he was an overall shitty friend in normal circumstances but I decided to give it one last chance. He sucked the life out of the trip and I peaced out of the friendship essentially at the airport (we had separate flights).
Lol. 'Went on a trip with a friend 9 years ago and havent seen them since, Best Journey ever!'
I’d be so mad if someone kept going on dates and stuff while I’m traveling with them and disturbing people in their sleep. 

I don’t mind splitting up to do things but sometimes that’s hard when you’re sharing rooms.
First, they have to have traveled a little bit already. 2nd we have some conversations about travel and how we plan trips and how we travel. If they have traveled a bit, have an idea of what they like, and have similar planning styles, it tells me that they’re a good candidate. I get more of a feel during the actual trip planning and then find out how well we click during the actual trip. 
I’ve had several people say “I want to travel, but I don’t want to plan anything” and I knew in that exact moment that we wouldn’t work out as travel partners.
I like to do local overnight trips with friends to test the waters before anything involving planes happens. Just travel with them in lower risk situations. I’ve done plenty of weekend birthday trips to know who I’d never take anywhere lol. It gives you a good basis on how they pack and like to spend their time.
Communication is definitely key. If both people have matched their expectations, it helps prevent potential resentment.
It's amazing to me how high "find someone to go on a date/hookup with" is on the travel priority list of some people I know. When I was single relatively recently, it was never on mine. I could do that at home.
2 of us didnt know him. The third kind of knew him. Still be better with a heads up and let the other person know what we will be doing.
I mean during solo trips you still have the option of meeting people , which is what I did 

Further more, those that you meet usually have the same mindset/objectives , so easy to connect
When people say "We just have different morals I guess..."

It means "I have morals and I think you don't"
then get your own room.
All inclusive I think is what they meant
hahaha we knew each other through high school and have been close since then and into adulthood, so we've seen the best and worst of each other. i'm the planner-organiser and she is chill and likes to go along with things so we have worked very well as a travel pair so far 🤣 i'll try to remember to report back!
Appreciate you.  I'll keep that pub in mind.  I'm a few hours north of Glascow at the moment.  Glencoe if you're curious.
Thank you, and done.  :)
Ah ok
Oh we have a little bit I think the main difference is I want to go go all the time and see as much as I can whereas he may want to be spending a little more time chilling and going slow I am in no position to press him he's much more well off than I am and paid for my airfare in full. The country we are traveling to is a Southeast Asian Nation where our American dollars will get us very far so the airfare will likely equal greater than my entire budget for the trip
I learned even more. separate holidays.
Yup, separete rooms is key.
I'd even preface this and say, hey don't take it personally but sometimes I just need alone time, so may just go off on my own.

I've told friends that I know aren't morning people or like to sleep in, I get up earlly, and I'll get going early, so hit me up if you wanna try to meet up later.
That’s it yeah.
>I’ve had several people say “I want to travel, but I don’t want to plan anything” and I knew in that exact moment that we wouldn’t work out as travel partners.

I feel the opposite. 😂😂 For me it's easier to travel with someone who is pretty okay with whatever i plan rather than someone who is also a planner. Because then we both butt heads. 

I think for me the key is folks who want things their way but don't necessarily take the burden to plan it. I know people who will say everything works during planning and then every time you plan something they'll keep asking you to tweak it more and more and then I end up feeling like an agent and tour guide for them.
So important that they have traveled before!!
Yep. Rule #1: if someone's annoying you, speak out and try to resolve it rather than letting it fester.
Ok
Excellent. Sounds like a good match. This one we only knew each other for one year. I threw a Hail Mary and it didnt quite play out how I imagined.
Oh cool. I stayed in a bell tent there once. Froze my ass off but it was beautiful and I had a fox encounter. There’s an amazing pub in the town of Killin LOL.
Amen to that.
Amen to that
A great example of how everyone is different 😊
If I have to plan everything then I tend to feel responsible for them having a good time and the trip feels like work rather than vacation.
This! It doesn’t get mentioned enough!!!
never invite someone you only know for a year for international travel lol. 

I refuse to travel with someone who I haven't known / pretty much lived with for years and years.
Beauty ain't the word.  It's absolutely stunning and the mountain tops all have snow on them.  It got to a high today around -2C so there was frost everywhere.  Just an amazing day for hiking.  I'll check out killin tomorrow.  There can't be that many pubs there.
It doesn’t, experience is a key part of knowing what you might like or don’t like on a trip. I don’t want to find out while on the trip that they’re a relax and do nothing vacationer since I’m a go do activities vacationer. I want to know that ahead of time and sometimes you just don’t know that about yourself until you go on that first trip or two as an adult. 
It’s also nice if they have some common sense when it comes to safety, etc. while traveling.
You’re right! It’s breathtaking. I don’t remember the name of the pub but it’s close to the bridge and raging river. Had a great dinner. Some guy walked in with a very wet, large dog and he sat by the fire to warm himself. It was amazing.
if you have any glencoe tips im going to be there for 3 weeks this summer.
It's low season right now.  Lot's of stuff is closed.  Basically I went to what was open.  Someone else told me about Clachaig Inn as the place to be.  I couldn't tell you because I wasn't there.  You should be alright though.  It's a very small town/community.
just got called bad at piano
i was at a family party tonight and was messing around on the piano (not trying at all), just playing some random shit lol. Anyhow, I overhear my some relatives say

“what’s [my name] doing on the piano?” *laughs* 

another relative: “she’s not very good it seems” 

“ha! Yeah I can tell”

I’ve been playing on and off for around 8 years and I wasn’t even trying to play anything. Jesus christ I was just messing around… Now I don’t even know if I want to play anymore. Stupid assholes made me feel so depressed. I was actually thinking about getting back into lessons. Don’t know if I will now :/ It’s actually making me pretty pissed off because they have never even touched an instrument

Edit: Thanks everyone for the advice. I’ll admit, I wrote this more of a rant initially. Some other things in life have been making me a bit down and I think my insecurities got the best of me when I heard those comments… I realize I really do enjoy playing and would love to get back into lessons. 
Never let someone elses opinion determine your worth or course of action in life. Even the best of pianists have haters or “stupid assholes” who try to tear their playing down, but they would never have reached success if they quit because of what someone else (who doesnt even play!!!) said and let it determine their future. If you werent even playing anything forreal, you should be laughing at their ignorance lol at least I would be😂 anyways at the very least you should take lessons for yourself and in return prove em wrong🤷‍♀️ or ask yourself why you wanted to learn because if its just for the ability to look impressive in front of your family, it might not be worth the lessons. You can find plenty of things on youtube to look or sound impressive. But if you find a true calling or passion to music and the piano then absolutely take lessons again and don’t ever let anyone get in your way of your success. Wishing you the absolutely best!
Remember that the average non-musician will probably tell you River flows in you is a harder piece to master than Für Elise.
your family sounds a bit friggin rude. next time, ask them to jump on and play something since they're obviously such experts.
If you are playing for the sole purpose of having other people enjoy your practicing, you have a difficult road ahead.

My entire life my family hated listening to me play anything. I remember my sister having full on meltdowns when she had to go to one of my concerts because it was so “bad and boring”, LOL. My mom made her go regardless. I can’t remember anything specific being said, but I also know my dad thought concerts were boring. Eventually, going to Kiwanis for adjudication, I would just go myself and no one from my family would be there. Now (at 36 years old) I am just learning piano for the first time and when my sister came over I forced her to listen to me play a terribly executed version of “Oh Come All Ye Fairhful” and she plugged her ears and made a big scene. It’s really more of a joke now.

I never recall feeling hurt by any of this, because I didn’t play music for them. I played for myself, and there were enough teachers, conductors, other people who played instruments, adjudicators, accompanists involved (as in… people who actually know things) who validated that I was making progress. The reality is that practicing (most of the playing we do) isn’t usually very nice to listen to. And people who don’t play an instrument honestly usually can’t tell if it’s good or bad playing because they don’t know anything, haha. 

There is a reason they make digital pianos with headphones now.
They sound insecure about their own lack of ability or talent and are trying to bring you down. Think nothing of it and keep on playing
When ppl show you who they really are, believe them. And once you have determined they're garbage, know their opinions and approval must also be more garbage. 
Play on.
Honestly I think this was their passive aggressive way of saying they didn't really enjoy what you were doing in that moment and that it was annoying to them. Someone "messing"around on a piano can be very annoying. Have you ever heard someone practice a song? It's not enjoyable, and that's ok. It's just how it is. It's different than sitting down and actually listening to someone perform. I think if you wanted to play around on a piano, a family gathering/party where people are trying to talk to each other isn't really the right place or time. Sometimes at parties people invite someone who they know can play for an impromptu performance, but it doesn't sound like that's what happened here. I don't think they really cared about your technique or even listened to it, they were just expressing that what you were doing was disruptive and annoying, and they did it in a really rude way.
Sounds like toxic family members. Try not to let it get you down (easier said than done).
Whenever someone talks shit within earshot I always assume the intent was to hurt. Not that what they said is true or how they feel, just whatever hurts you. Otherwise they would hold it to themselves or wait until out of earshot. It says far more about them as people than anything about your playing. Especially since you were just messing around and not playing an actual song.
My first private lessons music teacher (not piano though) told my parents a few months in of me learning with her that I had “no ear for music” and was essentially a hopeless, tone-deaf cause. I was 8. I let it get to me and I didn’t touch music again for three years. Now 15 years after returning to music, I have a music degree and perform professionally. All I can say is fuck em. Do it for you, not them.
I hate when people are being bullied by their own family. Fuck these people
I think people demand too much. If you were horsing around, whatever. But even if you played to your fullest abilities they would request more to the point of "HOW DO YOU NOT KNOW THAT?!?!" 

I am getting started on the piano again, but I have been taking vocal lessons for a year and 3 months in I was at a bar and the nonstop pressure to get me to sing didnt stop. It got to the point of being rude. I also play guitar and sometimes get offhand comments about never playing in front of people or how good could I be?

While my story doesn't mirror yours, I just think people dont generally have patience for the arts. But also most people only hear and see finished pieces of art in their life, so when they get exposed to "joking around on something" or practicing of these skills they think a lot less of it. Also, the same people probably dont practice the arts themselves.

I would disregard their voice and listen to the one inside of you that says keep going.
My uncle said “what’s wrong with her” when I played. Ask me if I’ve played for this people since.
you could be the richest person in the world, most decorated solider, a nobel prize winner, a rocket scientist, an astronaut, and there are still going to be a million little pissant people very aggressively telling you you're nothing.

don't let those people define how you spend your time on earth.  do what you want to do.
Spite is a great motivator! (at least for me) :D  Play, enjoy and give them some sweet Rachmaninov next time.
Should've just played your favorite/most practiced piece
Don’t just “play some random shit” at a family gathering then. No one wants to hear that. People will barely care if you’re playing nicely as well. That’s how playing piano is, no one really cares or appreciates it.
If they are “stupid assholes” why are you taking their criticism so seriously?
Music is for the musician. If others enjoy it, it's an added bonus
Next time just hopp over and tell them... what is "xxx" doing judging over people?

She's not a very good person it seems...

And spit in their food...
Don't take someone's opinion on something that they themselves do not understand. An actual pianist would never make such comments. People only know to shit on something they don't possess.
Maybe that was because you didn't play polka.
> they have never even touched an instrument

That's the dead giveaway. They're deluded about "Professionalism"
Lesson 1: you play only for you.
Disgusting behaviour. They'll get what's coming to them if they continue to act like that.
We’re they drunk? F’em!
Your family doesn’t seem to be very supportive. I’m sorry to hear that you don’t have that support. That can be tough when learning something as difficult as playing the piano. I still remember comments that I got when I was learning from family members - even when they were less harsh than the ones you heard.

All I can say is, if you love playing music, keep going. It takes a long time to become competent for most people. Give yourself the grace to keep learning. Celebrate your own milestones and successes.

Living with someone who is learning an instrument can be challenging, especially if you have no clue about the difficulty of the task and you only think of yourself. If you can, try to have compassion for their ignorance and pettiness. Understand that is coming from them and only reflects badly on who they are.

Not everyone is going to enjoy listening to you play no matter how good you get. Playing for myself as an audience, for the joy of making music is the only solution I’ve found. That and choosing who I play around…
Sounds like a sitcom family. Laugh with the audience and keep playing.
Almost always, when people say things like that amongst themselves, they're saying it to make themselves feel better about their own inadequacies, not as an actual judgement of you.
I think your releltives would be so bad at piano they would be banned from playing it. You,on the other hand,sound like you’re wonderful at it. I screw around with instruments too. I have a recorder though I’m into piano and I like to just missuse it.
Their negativity says so much more about them than you, but I’m sorry you had to experience that. I’m sure it must have hurt.

During covid I started teaching myself how to play the second half of Fur Elise and my sister in law made fun of me saying I was cheating because I had written some of the notes down. Fast forward a few (obsessive) weeks later and I could play the piece beautifully - a life long goal of mine. The feeling of pride I had far outweighed the hurt of that negative comment.

After that piece I started learning more and more songs and it has been the most enriching, confidence boosting experience I’ve ever had. I suffer from depression and it has been so therapeutic for me to go to the piano and express my feelings through song.

Keep going! You will be so happy you did :)
Quite often people will project their own feelings of self worthlessness on to others. Bringing other people down makes them feel like they’re a better person. Prove them wrong and become a great piano player x
Get lessons and next time there is a family thing, you first just start messing around like you did now, then play so well they will think you are possessed by Beethoven or something.
Once you learn to legitimately not care about other people's opinions, the happier you'll be. I write trash music and disseminate it amongst my socials - I've done this for like 14+ years, I barely get a like or comment every 10 releases. But that's not what it's for, my music is for me - it's my take on the world and my take on the concept of music itself. If I'm happy with it, there's no need to look to the completely irrelevant judgement of others.
There’s 3 options here to the person that was calling you bad:

1. They don’t know how to play piano themselves. At that point, it is laughable they want to make fun of someone for doing something they can’t do. If you do play badly, at least you PLAY.

2. They do play and are bad. They feel insecure in their playing so they decide to make fun of someone else as a way to overcompensate.

3. They do play and are good. Which means They’re just an ass. Which is also embarrassing.
People who don’t play, don’t understand that learning requires trial and error, or “noodling” they are only accustomed to hearing the finished product, like a song. Don’t listen to their ignorance.
Near the end of college, I once had a lot of music educators tell me that one of my performances was amazing. Several girls started talking to me. Then the girl I liked said that it was boring and soulless.  I pretty much stopped playing and went nowhere after that. Even a decade later, it's been pretty much nothing.
People mindlessly say stupid things. I take stuff like this to heart a a lot too, so don’t feel too bad. You know you. You know what sounds good and what sounds bad.
Good hearted people will compliment your playing even if you don't sound great. 

Assholes will say you sound bad even if you sound fantastic. Especially if you didn't ask for feedback.  

You were unlucky in coming across the second group of people. Nothing more.
So what I'm hearing is they suck but like hear me out... play bad and for fun for a while next time then vlear your throat dramatically Crack your fingers and then accidentally "get good" and watch them eat their words.
> people called me bad so I don’t feel like taking lessons

Who do you think lessons are designed for, good players?
Take some lessons from the old girl who taught Bill Murray in Groundhog Day. You'll soon show them
Ask yourself is it really true what your relatives said? Really go into that question.
Congrats on being so good at piano you made someone else feel insecure!
They are mean spirited people. That you sat down and played, was beautiful to me
There's a lot of well meaning but ultimately unhelpful advice to ignore what people think of you. That's a nice thought but it's asking the impossible from the social creatures that we are. 

Might I suggest a more useful hack: People tend to categorize you very early and very quickly. Especially with something like piano playing when they aren't musicians. So just open up with something fast and impressive. Doesn't have to be Rach 3. It's surprisingly easy to impress non-musicians with a few arpeggios or runs. Really only needs to be a few seconds. Get everyones attention so they categorize you as an expert (consciously or subconsciously). And once that's happened, you can stop and do whatever you want. Even if it's really unimpressive, they'll just assume that's some kind of special genius-musician magic.
Screw um'. Play on dear 🙏
Nothing worse than being at a family party and that one cousin named Kevin is banging away on the piano while we're all trying to talk.

You were probably called bad because you were playing loudly at an inappropriate time.
Play your life to your own beat you got the tune man
Every note is beautiful when blazed by free souls
Zig zag those hands! ZiggyZag you one woman band!
Growing up my family hated to hear me practice. Now that I’ve moved out, I practice on my own. This allows me to have a fully refined piece to perform for them, and they now love to hear me play. It’s true that hearing someone practice isn’t very fun. Rude family members in any case 👎🏼
When you do something, do it for yourself and not others. I hope you will learn to love your skills.
Well you were just messing around! Why are you doing that in front of a group of people if you want them to appreciate your playing?
I mean, if you weren’t trying that was your queue to start trying
Are you bad at piano?
Assholes gonna be assholes. They'd bitch at a perfect performance just cause Rachmaninoff was too grim or some shit. They also know nothing about piano so they can fuck off, they're completely ignorant.
Keep playing piano!
We can break down the interaction into parts. Circumstance, interpretation of circumstance, emotion, action 
You we’re messing around on the piano. 
People said words. 
Then you felt badly. 
Then you were going to not get lessons. 
Most emotions will only last about 3 minutes (or less) if you sit with them. 
Please don’t give up playing because of what someone said. You get so much enjoyment from just messing around, imagine how much more is in store for you!
Playing piano is very hard,
I currently am learning a very hard piece.
Not everyone has the Talent, Patience, and Skill to know how to play.
Those people were just jealous, and they opinion doesnt matter since they're not at your level. Dont let others make who YOU are. Dont let them control YOUR emotions. I saw that you had things that made you feel down. But take it as a challenge.
Go back to classes, learn, progress, and become better. And next time, show them who YOU really are (a giga chad), and kick their butt!
They talk as if they're the head of "the ministry of all things piano and music related to ever exist in this universe *and* the world"
Your family are arseholes and probably primarily don’t know what they’re talking about and secondly jealous because they could never even if they tried. Who tf needs that negativity. You keep doing what makes you happy 😌🎶
Your relatives suck.
I let stupid, rude, mean people have as little time in my head and life as possible. It's not always easy to do but what IS easy is to continually get better at it one step at a time. Never quit playing if you love it and enjoy it! Music is for ourselves first and foremost ♥️
Come and listen to me! You'll feel incredibly talented afterwards! :)
If you’re looking for any suggested pieces, this one is sure to be a hit among your top critics at your next gathering.

https://youtu.be/UEK97bSz6LQ?si=90D4DeSbea9gJJit
Play your heart out and sing at the top of your lungs....too many people have silenced too many voices cause they could not keep opinions to themselves and more than likely are too afraid to try to play or sing or paint or create.   There are so many shut down people that don't like when they see some one try what they are to afraid to
Don't let their judgement get to you man. Just remember that those hating on you are jealous and envious of your skill. Keep doing what you love! Ignore the haters!
It hurts I know, I felt the same after I starter running and just one comment made me quit on the spot - "oh, you're JUST reaching 5K? it's not that great".

But from time perspective, I would slap my old self in the face for quiting just like that. NEVER let dumb comments make you quit something you love. Think about all the progress you will miss by the time you realize down the line that it wasn't worth quiting over something so dumb. Then it will really suck, trust me. I was there.
Fuck em if they can't take a joke.

You do you.

Get back into the lessons.

Do it for yourself, b/c you're gonna love it.
Jealousy is a horrible thing. I pity those who succumb to it (like your relatives). I hope they grow out of it, and don't damage the confidence of others, along the way.

See it as that, because that's literally what it is.
Fuck them. You weren’t performing for them u were playing for yourself! I know the diff ❤️
The fact that there are currently 69 comments and I'm writing the 70th making me sad.

But anyways, just ignore them tbh and play more, just take I big huge brown smelly crap on their opinion.
You will not be happy in life if you let the opinions of others determine your worth and interests.
I think the key here is to know what to play (as in half practicing/dicking around vs seriously performing) and in which situation to play. 

So in the case of a family/friends gathering, it’s important to realise that everyone wants to chat and mingle, and the spotlight isn’t on you. In this situation, you see a piano and naturally want to have a go on it. But in doing so, you are bringing the attention to you. No one asked you to play anything, and so a couple people might be interested to see/hear what you are doing, but most people will find it annoying. If you are playing impressively, you might turn a few more heads positively, but overall, you’ll still be a noisy disruption to everyone’s conversations. And even then, performing well in this situation will often be viewed by most as showing off, and of course, some of that will come from jealousy. If just tinkering around, you’re a disruption that’s not worthy of everyone’s attention, and viewed as bad.

Unfortunately, it does tend to be the way that, when people ask you to play, they know you play and there’s a piano, and they nagging you to perform, those are the times for it, and usually those are the times you aren’t feeling it, and then have nerves about performing. Sucks but this is how it is.

In short, experience over time will help you know when it’s a good time to play around people and when not to. The comments about you being bad can be ignored, they are just annoyed you are disrupting the party.
Ah screw those guys. You’re probably better than 99% of the planet. Plus, do you have fun doing it? If yes then it really doesn’t matter how good you are… have fun and do what you want to do.
I heard someone call Horowitz “not really all that good” so you’re in the best of company.
Part of my brain would imagine those fools listening to me as I practiced, it would imagine them becoming impressed and speechless.  I would use that image repeatedly in my life to motivate me to play, and as a constant visual as I would play.

Sounds crazy, but this is very similar to what goes out of my brain sometimes. I never perform for people, but in my head I do and I think that it's kept me pretty dedicated to the piano for decades.
Don't let it get to you. I've been playing since I was 10. I look at it as I'm better than most people, but not as good as Eric Reed or Prince or Elton John and that's ok. If someone says i'm bad, ok, whatever. Thats your thought but I think i acomplished what I wanted in learning this thing!
nah fuck them
I am appalled at the behavior of your relatives, but don’t you dare let anyone stop you from playing ❤️
Remember you can’t choose your family.  However you can choose how much time you spend with them.

If they are this unsupportive it might be best to not have that much interaction with them.
To add to what others have said, you really just need to ignore them and play for yourself. Maybe find some supportive audiences to play for. Since people are just include. Just know that anyone who can play an instrument is impressive. Leaning any instrumrnt is very difficult. Those who have never tried will never know.
People who don’t know shit are more likely to be that harsh. A good pianist would at least remember their time as a beginner and not say that stuff. Not saying that you are a beginner, just know that someone who knows the journey of playing piano would not say something like “you suck”
I study and play piano for my own amusement. There is a wealth of music to explore, and studying piano is a  great way of doing this. Take lessons.
Well you can start learning a super hard piece and next time they come, you'll say "Last time, I've only showed a fraction of my true power. Now please listen."

Jokes aside, I've done 8 years of piano too and I'm starting to get good. But honestly I have friends who are way better than me while practicing for the same time. Don't let people say that. Personally, if I started piano, it was to play pieces I enjoy. Even though there are the super badass pieces that I don't think I'll even capable of playing them one day, I just play what I want. After 8 years of piano, you ARE good no matter what. Don't worry and play what you enjoy
I would have turned around staring and say loudly. “You go play then? HUH! And stormed off”
You may shoot me with your words, 
You may cut me with your eyes,
You may kill me with your hatefulness,
But still, like air, I’ll rise…
— Maya Angelou
Generally in cases such as this I yell, “Oh yeah? Well how much you gonna pay me to stop?”
Only accept criticism from people who are better at the thing than you are
My wife once told me I couldn’t count, and it was pissing her off. 

Doesn’t matter when I’m learning a brand new song, and the chords are foreign to me. 

Made me play louder.
if it makes you feel better i can only play a little bit of the fnaf song so your doing better then me
Doing anything poorly for 1 minute isn’t a life sentence. Perhaps at the moment you did sound bad, that’s ok lol. Doesnt make it true for every time you play, or how you will play in the future.
Don't let other people dictate your life. If they are stupid assholes, why care so much about what they say?
Don't just start hammering away at a piano thinking everyone should enjoy it. It's super irritating when you're at a social gathering and someone just starts "messing around" on the piano. So I disagree. You either practice very hard and play something to the occasion or you should accept that you're a bad pianist.
Why would you stop this just means you can prove them wrong and in my opinion proving someone wrong gives the best feeling ever.
I taught piano for 45 years (including colleges) and have a doctorate in piano performance. My opinion is that people who enjoy playing the piano and love piano music SHOULD play the piano! (Too many play to impress but literally HATE the music, hate the practice and prep, and quit piano as soon as all their contests are over - sad!)
Play for yourself, not for anyone else. I don't mean that as in never play for others, but you enjoy playing the piano, right?   


It doesn't matter what other people think, it's what you think when it comes to playing. I have a guitar I've had since my teenage years, still can't play worth a damn. But there is comfort in the simple strumming or even just tapping a fret or two. It's peaceful.

&#x200B;

Don't give up on that passion.
who cares what they think, next time ask them if they want a refund on the tip they put in the tip jar, otherwise move along down the road, they're messing with your income

or save a couple of words and stand up and pull them over to the piano and say "play, and make it good" and when they decline, ask them to perform at something they are good at.  if they don't have any performance skills, ask them if they are good at anything at all of value.  ignore anything they say of course.

also tell them it was not intended for them

then stand within earshot of them and ask someone next to you "why was xxx invited, it's always more boring when they are here" 

make sure to spread rumors about them

these are just a few very minor things that you should do

or you could just completely ignore the assholes because it doesn't matter in the slightest
Go learn some Rach, shame them.

They will never do anything, you will do what you can, which is already inf times better than them
I remember a girl in middle school who didnt play any instrument looking at debussy's arabesque no.1 music sheet and saying "that must be easy". Now, that piece is not hard relatively to other pieces, but anyone who's played piano for enough years knows that for many students that piece represents a new challenge because it will probably be the first piece that tackles polyrythms that they have to learn, so for them, that piece won't be easy at all.  Someone who plays an instrument also knows that music sheets can be deceptive in general. 

This is just an anecdote to say that people who don't play piano or have experience with playing instruments will be ignorant on the matter or lack in imagination. Being ignorant is not bad, but it is bad not to take a step back and consider you might be too ignorant to judge. A person who has experience with learning an instrument would've been able to understand that you shouldn't give a definitive evaluation on someone's playing based on how they're messing around the piano, especially if you took a break for some time (kind of like when you don't speak a language for long and you'll end up rusty, but you could pick up faster if you started learning again in comparison to someone who is learning from scratch). Ofc it depends on what you want to learn, but if you study classical music, you might be really good at reading sheet music while also sucking at improvising. Basically, don't mind them, their comment genuinely sounds like it stems from ignorance
I would have walked right up to them and offered them the piano stool. Losers, you're doing great, keep at it, they're just jealous nasty bitches. God, imagine being that type of person, what a rotten life they must have with all those nasty feelings inside them.
Any negative comment is a reflection of the one making it. That is the way i like to think of it;) it is easy to get discouraged when people make those types of comments. But there will always be haters. Just the way life works. They speak before they think!!:)
Fuck ‘em.
Fuck them. The only (and my case the loudest) critic should be yourself. Play whatever makes you feel good, and when you are in that moment, let it resonate.
This whole thread is full of stories of disappointing people. Keep up the good practice, pianists, and keep playing!
Sometimes if you play complex piano music to someone who doesn’t know anything they will think it’s just really bad, like a cat walking across a piano. Then if you play some very basic rock and roll or pop song they will think you are a genius and love it.
If you weren’t trying to play anything, why even bother? If they are so hopeless that they can’t afford to consider sticking around and seeing what you are truly capable of, who actually gives a shit? 

It’s not something to get touchy feely about if you overhear someone talking crap about you, they aren’t some god watching over you, overseeing all the things you’re up to.

Next time they are doing something randomly, just stick it to them and say that they are doing it badly if you wanna watch them squirm :)
Just keep working at it. Ok, so what if you aren’t very good? That’s your sign to work harder, not to give it up lol. It’s like you’re digging a hole and someone tells you that you’re not deep enough yet so you drop your shovel and walk away instead of continuing until you are deep enough. Does that make sense? When people tell you, you are bad that is your sign to keep working and not to give up. People call me bad at drums and criticize me all the time. I am bad at drums(can’t do a proper roll or diddle) but the fact that I’ve failed auditions twice and people laugh when I say I want to be drums makes me work harder for what I want and fuels the fire so that one day I can be good and I can make the position. I prefer constructive criticism but I use all criticism to my advantage. Use their words as a way to feed the fire you have for piano. When people throw tomatoes, make tomato soup instead of wallowing in pity.
If they do that again just ask them to show you how good they are 😂. They probably can’t play the piano at all
Playing the hardest piece you know would show them. Plus, they have no right to say that since they don't play any instruments and even if they did they still shouldn't say that
Quit if you choose, but nobody can *make* you quit.
I like to play for people but when I go to my parents house to play on the piano they literally shut the door to the room. Girlfriend will watch videos on the phone, I’ve played for over twenty years it’s not about being good or bad I think that there’s just a lack of general appreciation for the instrument idk
Judging someone’s piano skills/interpretation is like judging domes yoga pose. 
It’s unnecessary. 
The rule of if one has nothing good to say say nothing. 

The only time where judging should be considered is at an exam or to your teachers and mentors who get paid or when you by professionals. 

Musicians young and old never get taught how to deal with these situations.

Listeners nowadays don’t have the ppl skills or be on simon cowbell mode thinking it’s ok or normal. When it’s not.

Do you and keep playing for you. Don’t mind the others. Music and in this case piano is for your soul.
Honestly it's their ignorance not your ability...

... The first time I had a lesson with I asked my tutor what the hardest song he knew my teacher he showed me a song and I had to stop myself rolling my eyes ...like this guy is a concert pianist and this is what he's playing...it sounds super easy.....I'd probably learn that in a week 

One year on and I think if I practiced every day 10 years I still couldn't play it  😁 because I simply underestimated the time and commitment it takes to learn piano ... And that sometimes even simple tunes can become very complex when adding polyrhythms ornaments and counterpoints  and yeah basically I was a grade A twat....and next time you play Infront of your family ask them to show you how the song is done proper 😁 they won't be smiling then
KEEP PLAYING ❤️❤️❤️❤️
Why didn't you play something serious to prove them wrong?
I have been playing for decades and relatives, especially close ones, will hyper focus on anything they have percieved as a mistake.   My brother used to mock me constantly. None of these people even play an instrument.
Some people are simply a--holes who get pleasure from tearing down others and seeing harm come to them. 

Even the most famous, successful and admired musicians have their haters. There are a lot of people out there who simply hate all music and anything creative and artistic. Really. 

Try to ignore those people. Develop social networks and relationships that keep those type of people from dominating your life. I know it can be difficult if it's close relatives and if you are relatively young. But you'll have to do that if you want to continue playing piano and not letting them destroy you.
People who call other people bad either have ungodly skill and are musical genius with an ego (unlikely) or have never touched an instrument and their opinion don't matter (very likely).
Only 1 thing to do. You have to kill them
"shes not very good it seems"

*Rolls up sleeves*

*Flight of the bumblebees intensifies*

Seriously, if this happens next time, play the piece youre most good at just to prove em wrong. Dont let the haters get you down
Why let people who haven’t got the slightest clue on what makes a “skilled musician skilled” affect you. They don’t know anything about what being a musician is, as you would be able to tell if someone is messing around
Sounds like your family is a bunch of assholes. Sorry if that's offensive.
They just want to get off to the adrenaline of a rapid, mindless scramble, and I bet you're far more than a one-trick pony. What impresses me most is slow-burning cerebral music, not the former. There are some slow, thin-textured fugues (or earlier ricercare) that transport me to another universe; however, I think the masses would yawn at them. If your folks are as ignorant as you say, their opinion holds little weight. You don't have to be a chef to taste the food, but you do have to have some cooking experience to say the chef sucks.
You should've said "Ok fuck you, watch this" and played Canon in D, La Campanella, Moonlight Sonata and Rush E at the same time. Anyway don't let ignorant comments put you off practicing whatever you want.
[https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eVSlE28hOgI](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eVSlE28hOgI)

&#x200B;

Piano is an activity that you can just enjoy by yourself if you want, don't be put off by idiots
Ya, ive found that with music, 90% of people get lost in delusions of superiority and grandeur and end up compulsively having to pass a judgement/comment. But thats a very non musical way of being. and they usually suffer from the fact that music isnt fun for them anymore and they dont know why. its a tradgedy for them, and you dont have to take it on. music is just fun. 

Being a good musician means being someone with an open creative mindset. "good" and "bad" dont really exist for truly creative people. things are different. people like different things. its all a question of style. and acceptance and encouragement of self expression.

some people have spent more time being open to different methodoligies and have read different books and have pracrticed in different ways that maybe does reflect in their overall sense of musical culture......and when they play you might appreciate those things, but its not because, they are "better"

people want it to somehow be about them and their ego, they somehow want music to validate them as people......but thats not real. 

the lack of structure  makes people feel insecure. they want there to be a box for them to judge themselves by. so they tell themselves they are "good" and that others are "bad" to highlight their own "goodness". and people like that are hard to collaborate with becuase its not a creative and fun experience. i prefer a musician who is easy to work with and less virtuoso, becuase they are better at being a musician in other ways.

music is just fun. thats it. sorry the music industry has given so many people the idea that participating in music could mean anything else. People like to talk about the intellectual intricacies and complicated pieces of music theory in a way that helps them validate a feeling that they are special......but really music is special because how unintellectual it is.....it just feels good. even the simplest stuff. 

explore your own style and enjoy how enriching it is to participate in music. how good it feels.

i dont know what complex or simple is, i just know when something sounds good to me.

its almost a cliche at this point to hear musicians giving their pedantic opinion and commentary about what is good and bad and what is truly impressive and isnt. its a contradiction of the openness and fun that is inherent in music.

music is like a delicious meal, you know that its good, not because you are so special and smart, but because when we like something, its undeniable. a warm bowl of delcious soup.....is just good. doesnt take anyone special to appreciate the things they like.  children who dont know anything about music can be just as sensitive as an adult whose studied music his whole life. THIS is what makes music special to humans.

so.....whenever the same old boring conversation grounded in musical critique starts, i usually check out.  better to focus that attention on enjoying yourself in what it means to grow your own self expression either as a solo artist or with others
Well, u know that's what relatives are put on Earth to do.😄😄😁
I'm so sorry you had to experience this, especially coming from your own family/relatives. 

At the risk of sounding like 'that person who just focuses on the solution', try to flip that experience as part of the stretching of a slingshot that can (and will, if you let it) catapult you into the beautiful, amazing world of music, where YOU get to make the rules, bend time and emotions, and at times connect with others who hear/see/appreciate that world you create. 

I don't know you, but I already think you're an amazing individual who is very intellectually in touch with their emotions. Don't let ANYTHING, ANYONE take that away from you.

(I'm an amateur piano/guitar player who used to be in a cover band when I was in college. I have a full time job and a kiddo now and barely ever have the time/energy/head space to play, but when I do its an amazing liberating feeling!)
It’s a bit harder when something like that comes from relatives. If I were you, I’d get soo good and practice so much that when you’re with them next and there’s a piano in the room, you blow their socks off with how good you are just to show ‘em. It’ll be quite satisfying, trust me 😎
well... the advice I want to give you is probably going to flag something if I use the language I want to use, so lets use a substitution and you fill in the blank however you want. 

they are a c, they will always be a c, and who gives a f what a c thinks, they are a c. the best you can do is out live them, retell this story at their funeral, and finish off with 'I may not be great at piano but I out lived you ya c' and walk out. 

f em and what they think. 

I suck at guitar and piano but it doesn't stop me from enjoying dicking around on them. If you like dicking around on piano then f what the c thinks and go for it. worst you can do is get an objective opinion from someone who teaches.
Double down.  You will feel better.  Next time they say that, play louder and with a lot of dissonance, and really get lost in the moment.
I love the irony of a person whose talent is running their mouth, talking down about someone who actually works at something.
People at family parties in my family often deal with their insecurities and social awkwardness by basically talking shit like this about each other, so I wouldn’t put much stock in it except for what it says about the speakers.  It’s not about you.
Man, fuck em. You sure you want to let the opinions of people you don't respect rob you of a lifetime of playing the piano?
Depressed over that? Lemme guess…you’re on the younger side…like younger than OG MW2 days where you were insulted every 10 minutes AT LEAST …ignoring that…I’m also inclined to believe that you are also VERY soft spoken am I right? Because my ass would’ve heard them talking shit and IMMEDIATELY turned and said “how about YOU get over here and amaze us with your piano playing skills”
A wise man once said "a prophet is not without honor, but in his own country, among his own kin, and in his own house."

Never believe anything bad, or good for that matter, that your family says about you. Even if you become notable and successful, they'll just come and ask you for money. Sorry to be so cynical, BIYKYK.
Aside from what others have said. In my experience music is the truest way to express emotion, you're feeling that emotion pretty intensely I see. Use that to fuel your art. Pour it into every lesson, practice, lyric, or chord. Embrace it and project it. 

Don't let anyone else tread on your dream, think of any musician ever in the whole of history. Not one of us across ages has gone without criticism. To that, I say, how well do these relatives play? Have they even tried? Could they produce a single pleasing tone? Probably not, and if they can then they should surely understand that they were once learning too!
I was well known throughout school I played the piano like a lot my skills did improve overtime I would blow them away with very powerful forte and pianissimo
Finnish composer Jean Sibelius said it best: "Pay no attention to what the critics say; no statue has ever been erected to a critic."
Don't allow your spirit or presence to be so weak. If their comment causes you to quit playing then they may be right. For different reasons but still.
just begin to play some ragtime its not easy but worth it gonna definitely shut their mouth :P just dont care people usually have hate for people having some talent in something when they dont, they are just trying to give value to themself that way ! Just do your thing love the piano and let nothing else comme between it there will always be some nasty unkind people even ur close relative ! I could give you some piano tips and lesson if u want and ill do it freely im not a professional pianist but got some skills :) u can contact me by email : [maquesimevachon@gmail.com](mailto:maquesimevachon@gmail.com) have a great day
Well, see, instead of shutting down and getting pissy about it, you should've just broken out your bread and butter song and shut them up with your skill. If your self esteem is so low that something like that gets to you, you got some shit you gotta work out.
I once got made fun of in a job interview by someone who didn’t understand my answers to his questions. My answers were perfectly fine - he was the one who was so oblivious that he didn’t understand any answer other than the one he was expecting. 

The only time anyone has a valid complaint is if you claim you can do something you can’t.
You didn't start piano so that some fucktards can call you bad. Keep playing the piano without giving any attention to them.
You’re right. At the end of the day, my goal isn’t to impress anyone, it’s to enjoy music. I just find it fun and honestly calming. I think I do want to take lessons again, but to improve for myself not out of spite or anything. Thanks for the advice
"Don't let the naysayers hold you back" is good life advice, not just for piano.
> Never let someone elses opinion determine your worth or course of action in life. 

This is just terrible advice. One should know how to listen to others' critiques and opinions and make reasonable judgments about their worth.
Also, think that by you getting depressed you are admitting that somehow what they said is true. Their words should not have any real effect if they are lies. Which in this case it is a lie because who can really tell what playing bad is? Or even in this case the situation was not a concert you were giving. So their words and any meaning that you could attribute to them vanish because they are lies.
Your average non-musician thinks the popular part pf Fur Elise is the difficult part.
I once had a situation at a work function where there was a piano and someone asked me to play something. I don’t really have anything poppy in my repertoire so I played a Chopin waltz. Quickly after, an older guy sat down a played a classic rock song that was mostly just loud chirds with a lot of pedal.

A coworker came up to me and said ‘bet you’re feeling self-conscious now’ with a big smirk, implying that I was blown out of the water by this guy. I just smiled and said yup, your average person will not know what good piano playing is or what songs are difficult. When playing for an audience the number one task is to entertain said audience and I couldn’t deliver. Sure it stung a little but you should never think differently about your skills because someone that doesn’t know anything on the subject doesn’t recognise those skills.
This made me laugh *way* too hard.
For real? The average non-musician thinks River Flows In You is harder?

(Also, what grade would River Flows In You be, anyway? I remember thinking Fur Elise was Grade 9+ and turns out it was Grade 7...)
I would agree with that. Neither are difficult, but mastering River will put you in a good position to tackle Fur Elise next, and the reverse is not true.
I not sure about that. h
[deleted]
I believe it was Jascha Heifetz who said,”If I don’t practice one day, I know it; two days, the critics know it; three days, the public knows it”. Even a legendary virtuoso like Heifetz was not immune to criticism. 

Op, don’t let your 8 years of hard work be ruined by a couple of tactless family members.
Exactly. Garbage people with garbage opinions
Yes, it's the difference between people who are actually creative and spend time around people who are creative; they see works in progress more often than finished products. Anyone who actually likes making music/art etc is comfortable with the messiness of it all. It's the making of that's cool, not the glossy fake airbrushed autotune and pointless comparison that people like this live in. Creativity is process, not product.
Have u played for those people since ?
Never lasts at least for me. Personally, love is the only thing which works
Nah, crying on Reddit is easier
Honestly.. this.  People nowadays will enjoy a scale run than a person playing atonally.  I’m gonna assume they thought there wasn't any cohesive idea hence it sounded random.

&#x200B;

So OP, I’d say get typical chord progressions down and follow that but keep the exploring sound in the lab.
Or just 'play random shit', regardless of who cares or not, because that's a much more freeing way to live!

Also, I love listening to people noodle on the piano, good or bad.
Or practice "playing some random shit" until you're so good at it that random people won't notice the difference between improvisation and playing existing pieces. I'm not a musician but my daughter is and she actually practices improvisation skills deliberately, so she can go on stage unprepared and just play. Practice pays off. Also playing by ear helps a lot. Improvisation unlocks ability to play with other random people you may find in a family gathering (even if someone only knows the first 8 bars of Fur Elise you might make something entertaining out of it).
It really hurts when someone cricicates you when you do something you like or love
Because our mind aren't working like that you can easily say something to yourself that make sense like "Why do I need to care these assholes" but your heart will not listen and take the damage anyway.
[deleted]
Because emotions are always so logical
But music should require no knowledge to enjoy or appreciate on some level. I would say that the less knowledge they have of music the the more “pure” their opinion is.  It’s the same way that I don’t need to be a chef to appreciate good cooking (or dislike bad cooking!)
and my mom
Ooh or even better.
Bring some sheet music, pretend you are struggling with reading it and mess around a bit, then ask one of those mean people if they can do it. Then they probably can't either and struggle. So then you play it really well.
My mom once told me how as she was growing up she'd get compliments from people (not even relatives) when they heard her practicing, not cause her playing was fun to listen to (obviously) but simply cause they recognized practicing is a good habit. They were incredibly wise people haha, wish there was more of it around
Anytime! You got this! Piano is my way to escape my head alot, and I love getting lost in making music(:
That's a good way of looking at it.

Shame on that relative who just likes putting people down.
Good reasoning! Play music for the sake of playing music! That's freedom right there.
Your piano skills, no matter what they are, are exponentially better than these peoples’ social skills. The audacity. Just be kind, for fucks sakes!!! 💕
I'm in the exact same boat, except I don't even know what I sound like. Me "messing around" would sound like a child who can't play. But I've been playing 15 years. I can play some difficult stuff, but nothing popular. And I have pretty bad performance anxiety about it so I play at about 25% in front of people. Usually can't get through a piece because of hands shaking and sweating... Noones ever been rude about it tho, that I've heard anyway.

But anyway, if that's your reason to play piano, then keep going, because you're doing it for you not them.
This is true to a point. However, some of us were raised to people please to a fault. I received some excellent wisdom from a mentor about a decade ago - “never accept criticism from someone you wouldn’t accept advice from.”  That has helped me to filter and weigh comments properly in my own head.
I disagree. While your statement about being able to take criticism is 100% true, i still stand on the fact that it should not ever determine your worth. Especially unsolicited like it was in this case. That is only for you to decide. Until you literally go before a judge or highly respected person and ask for their opinion, it is only up to you to decide what is true or not, no one else.
Great advice actually. Unless you are a lemming. 🤔
Your average non-musician only knows about the first 8-16 bars of Fur Elise :D
Why does your average non-musician only seem to know how to play the first nine notes?

(Or at the very least, stumble all over getting the first nine notes?)
That blows. I'm learning right now and it's been eye opening how I used to think piano synthesizer music was good compared to the piece played by a musician. Its really only something you develop an ear for when you actually know what you're listening to.
What song did he play?
Yeah, I think so. More notes = more difficulty for a non piano player. Same with Einaudi pieces.
I mean learning ANY song will put you in a better position to learn any other song…it’s called gaining experience
But if you make a joke at someone's expense, especially something disparaging of a creative endeavor, while they can hear you no less, you're actually a bit of an asshole. Film or piano or otherwise.
They should have said "how about you guys play!!!" I'm sure they would shut up fast.
(*Steve Harvey voice*) Hell NAW
It’s different for piano players (and sometimes musicians in general), we appreciate piano playing while 95% of piano don’t care for it at all. Especially if you’re playing random shit that can get annoying at a family gathering
Depends on who criticizes you
I don't think messing around on a piano = purposefully drawing an ugly stick figure.

The truth is we are all human and comments like this can bite.
Really?  I know plenty of non-musicians who say a particular band/singer/piece is "good" when they really mean they like it. Similarly, they say something's "bad" if they don't like it. It's not the same thing but they don't know the difference. It might just not be their style. Also, if they can't tell the difference between noodling and actually putting on a performance then they're really not qualified to judge!
All i said was because of given the situation of OP. Yeah they have an opinion on what sounds good or not, doesn't mean they can speak it out loud unless asked for.
What if you're a great chef, you make high quality food from fresh ingredients and someone says some low quality fast food across the street tastes better, simply because it is more salty / fat / sweet? People have different tastes and some tastes are not very sophisticated. The tricky part is to know your audience. If you play classical music to someone who isn't into classical music at all, their opinion matters less, because they have no tools to judge you. Some amount of education is needed to be able to understand and appreciate art. Without it they will not understand and dismiss your playing as bad.
Same, playing piano is basically my top leisure activity to do after a day’s worth of work. Playing computer games and irl activities are also good but personally nothing really beats playing piano pieces in the solace of your own quiet home at night. That feeling when your fingers themselves are the ones creating those beautiful melodies that soothes your ears and mind, oh I never get sick and tired of doing and enjoying this over and over.
Same I train my Pokémon from piano now they all grown to lvl 100
I mean, not even a judge. There are some pretty shitty judges out there.
I once played fur elise for my family and had them deadass ask “Theirs more?”
it was some Aerosmith song, I forgot the name
Not just anyone's expense, your family of all people.
Yeah, I thought the same. I guess it’s too late now, but if it ever happens again…
Yeah but its a weak argument. You dont need to be a director to think a movie sucks, and you dont need to be a cook to say something tastes bland
Bored and looking at their phones after 1 minute of playing
That happened at piano group!
True, but at the same time, if you suck at something even more than someone else, I think you should own that fact.
A movie is released when the director thinks it's ready for the world. A cook serves you a dish when he thinks it's finished.

If someone is playing at a concert and you say it wasn't very good, that's an understable thing to say. Not everyone can be a concertist.

Saying that someone is bad at piano because they hear them fooling around or practice is simply an asshole thing to do and something nobody who knows what it takes to play an instrument well would do.
Impossible concept to me, live music captivates me like a moth to light.
First day solo travelling and it was of the worst starts possible 
Last night I checked into a hostel. It was well reviewed, though comments mentioned it was self service, with no staff out of hours.

I check in, and yep, no staff, which I was expecting. 

I’m met with a man that is middle-aged and shirtless.  No problem here yet. I’m new to solo travel, but not new to hostels. 

Except this guy is obviously drunk, extremely intense, and very very off. I text my friends who advise me to leave, but I’ve paid in full, so I stay. We’re the only two in the room the first night.

The next day a girl checks in from Poland. Important to the story is I’m a man. This older bloke spends all day in the room just sitting shirtless. Me and the woman chat a bit, but it’s unnerving to have this silent bloke in the corner.

Cut to the night, and the polish lady has slept early as she’s only just got in. The man comes over to me and shows me a badly Google translated note on his phone asking to talk downstairs, away from the woman. My alarm bells are ringing.

We go downstairs and he try’s to explain he wanted me to have a better experience with the internet while I was working on my laptop. I asked him to cut the shit. He then admitted he wanted to be alone with the girl, and if I could stay downstairs for an hour. THIS GIRL IS UPSTAIRS ASLEEP. 

I go upstairs, pack my things, tell the girl what happened. The old bloke yells he isn’t a bad guy and he has made a mistake.

I’ll be reporting this incident, but it’s completely fried my brain and scared me for the rest of the trip. Please be vigilant.



Would argue that this is a brilliant start.
Had you stayed elsewhere your co-traveler 's start  would align more with "worst possible"
Throw your shoulders back and stand tall because 
You're the man!
Ekk. Gross. And the audacity. Thanks for sticking up to him. I hope the hostel offers the girl a different room.
Scary shit, but it sounds like you handled the situation as best as possible. Unfortunately the world is filled with weirdos and creeps. Don’t let it ruin your trip, only up from here!
As a female solo traveler who never stayed in hostels but considering trying one, this is scary. 😭
Thanks for protecting the girl from him!
You're a good person OP. Hope your trip is only better from now on.
When it comes to solo travel, you may have had one of the worst starts, but you maybe saved that girl. If you hadn't been there and it was just the two of them, I'd hate to even imagine what could have happened.

That guy is a creep - and we need to keep calling out men like this. It's not ok and is frankly disgusting. 

Additionally thank you for sharing this story. Years ago I had a small stint where I worked in a hostel  for about a month in Poland. The agreement was I'd check people in to the hostel and I'd get to stay there for free in the dorms. I ended up sleeping in a bunk bed next to someone who I checked in, and then he ended up trying to rob me of my laptop the next morning. The police were involved, and a fight broke out in the hostel as he was trying to leave and not get caught. He escaped by jumping out a 3/4 story building. 

That experience did a number on me, but it's the hardest experiences that make us grow as humans. Now you know how sketchy it can be to travel solo. 

  
Finally I'll leave you with this, as another guy who has been traveling there are some incredible hostels out there with incredible people and while you may focus on the bad experiences, there are so many good ones out there. 

You got this!
If you're a member of any fb travel groups, please share this experience with as many identifying details as you can so that people can be on the look out. This is extremely predatory behavior and this dude needs to be banned from hostels everywhere.
Who are the degens on here fishing for OP having done something wrong? 

This is an example of stellar behavior-  creep radar tuned in and turned up, saved a fellow traveler from a nightmare situation.  WELL DONE, OP. Keep up the travels, dont let this hinder you. Other solo travelers are lucky you're out there
Dude, you clearly did the right thing and good for you for standing up to him. As a frequent solo traveler I advise you to publicly name and shame the hostel. As a community we've got to look out for each other traveling in foreign places by ourselves. Also, HostelWorld, Lonely Planet, and other such services will help you vet better accommodations through reviews and ratings. Good luck on the rest of your trip. Currently rounding one out in Costa Rica myself
Name and shame please.
Thank you for telling her wow I’m queasy thinking about it
First day of solo traveling and I already saved someone’s life* fixed that for you - we travel to tell stories, right?
Good job you were there in the end 👍 hostels without staff are disasters waiting to happen
On behalf of all women: Thank you for doing the right thing.
As a female solo traveler, I am too scared to stay in a hostel. It makes my travels (not that many of them so far hahaha) more costly, but if this is the price of safety and peace of mind - so be it.
this sounds like the start of an episode of *Criminal Minds* or *Law and Order Special Victims Unit*

this is just awful
Thank you for informing the girl and doing something, OP. As others have said you are a decent human being. Unfortunately, there are many men who would have just obliged and left the woman alone with him to avoid being in an altercation themselves.

You have restored a little of my faith.
Thank you for doing the right thing for the girls sake. Thank you so so much!
Good on you for telling her. I never stay at hostels because I like my own room and privacy. If I can't afford my own room then I can't afford to go.
There needs to be some international predator list. So anybody whose in it can't access any hotel nor hostel anywhere in the world. This kind of behavior needs a total lockdown on the individual for life. 

Because jail isn't enough. They could finish their sentence and commit SA or rape again.
Me and my friend had an experience like this the one and only time I’ve stayed in a hostel. 

She’d stayed in loads so I felt safe with her. 

Until we got placed in a room with a man who just sat on his bed the whole time never went out and the only time he spoke to us was to offer us money for “acts” so to speak. 

The staff working there couldn’t have given less of a shit if they tried. 

I’ve never checked out of somewhere so quickly and I’m sorry to say but I will never stay in a hostel again. It’s just not for me.

I’m glad you were there to look out for that girl this time.
Thank you for not entertaining his behaviour. Men like him are why I always opt for all-female if it's available, but travelers like you are why mixed dorms are ok if they have a decent capacity.
Thank you! I was woken up at 6am last week when I was travelling alone, by a man asking if I wanted company. I was scared and angry and reported him - he got kicked out. Thanks for looking out for her!
I hope you waited for her to leave before you did.
Yea, that's bad.
Thank you so much for looking out for her. That creep definitely didn’t have anything good planned. As a solo female traveler, I really appreciate guys like you. Thank you. 

This guy should also be reported to the police if possible. And removed from the hostel. Dude has no business being around defenseless sleeping women.
You may have had a bad experience, but I'm glad you were there. 

That man would have had his way if you weren't, and that girl would've had an even worse experience than you.

Proud of you
Thank you for looking out for her. May the rest of your travels be in peace.
Jesus Christ what a ride. You're a good guy for letting that woman know what was happening.
You prevented the girl from having a much, much worse day. Sorry it feels yuck, but you did good! I hope you find somewhere less creepy to stay.
Worst possible start? But you're practically the hero here! You realise you saved a woman from being raped? It might not feel like it now but you saved someone. You did an amazing thing. And unfortunately, a number of people would have just put their head in the sand.
Thats fucked up
ugh i am so sorry you had to deal with that. but at least you did the right thing and that shows that you can think well in bad situations, which is a good trait to have when travelling, especially solo. hopefully things can only go up from here for your trip!
And this is why I only stayed in female only dorms during my travels when I did to hostels.
And this is why im putting my hostel days behind!!!! 😭 (+after a guy sat on my bed at berlin circus hostel)
Many things I can stomach and have experienced. But a piece of shit reptile brain driven moron, imagining to himself that a woman in his vicinity is somehow a thing he gets to use as he pleases….. I hope the girl is safe and that pig won’t get a chance to assault anyone else. Can we just legalize euthanizing those people right of the bat?
He should be castrated
Omg thank you you literally saved her omg thank you so much
This sounds eerily similar to a situation that happened to me at a hostel in Naples this June, me and the roommates in my room decided to report him to the hostel staff after he repeatedly harassed multiple woman in our dorm, and they escorted him out. Not to mention he was extremely intoxicated.
As a woman myself, thank you SO much for doing this. It’s encouraging to know that there are men out there such as yourself who will keep an eye out for us in these ways.
You may have, in fact you have saved a woman from getting possibly sexually assaulted. Good on you man.
One time I was staying in a hostel and I was the only guy. It was great but at 10pm another guy checked in. He was full on “hey bro how are you bro let’s go out bro” and I was tired so I said nah I’m good, but we swapped number in case I changed my mind. About 1 hour later he messaged me asking me to leave the room for 30 mins so he can bang this chick he met. I just read his message and didn’t reply lmao.
and then they say well if you want the luxury of a woman’s only room of course you gotta pay for it like I’m asking for foot massage 🫠
You just saved that woman’s life, yeah her life, because her life as she knew it would have ended. Wow.
You did great OP. Weirdos happen unfortunately whether you're traveling or never left your home town. But it isn't super common. Of my 9 months backpacking south America when I was in my 20s I am happy to say I came across one weirdo. I am a guy, I think this guy was either in love with me or jealous or something. He studied massage therapy apparently and kept insisting he should give me a massage but then get super aggravated and hostile if he saw me talking to another women, same ending, at some point my very unconfrontational self told the guy to cut his shit and stop fucking with me and scaring people away. You learn lessons, make stories and memories and can pass advice to other people. You fucking handled it like a scholar OP, super proud of you for calling that guy out and warning the girl.
I've never heard of a hostel with self service. That seems like a red flag.
Dude genuinely thank you for protecting that girl. You are awesome. I hope if I am ever in a vulnerable situation on my travels there is someone like you around.
Where was this?
Which hostel was it?
What's the name of this hostel? Where?
Super creepy and thank you for doing the right thing. Jeez
That is messed up!
Thanks for saving that girl! That sounds terrifying
Well that just sounds incredibly unsafe. I can’t imagine being a young female and just checking into some random shared room with no staff, and just two male guests, one who is drunk and shirtless. Fuck that. Like budget travel is fine, but really?
Thank you so much for telling her!!!
wow!!! Great call on following your gut and alerting the lady!! Thank you!!!
You're a good duder and also, man, keep a diary! You know how to write.
Think of this as being tempered, strengthened right out of the gate. 

My first time at a hostel I was lucky and ended up in a dorm room with people all my own age (and mainly girls. Wonderful to talk to). But before I even got there, some random Jersey Shore reject (it was New York) noticed my pack and saw me going towards the hostel, so he offered to hook me up with a hotel at a cheaper rate than the hostel (how he couldn’t possibly know the hostel rate set off one of many alarm bells). 

I basically gave him the brush off and went straight to the hostel. 

I passed my first test with flying colors, and it sounds like you passed your first, much harder one, very well too.
Thank you for sticking up for the girl !!!
And this is why I will never stay in a hostel, no matter how many people glorify it.
Thank you for being an ally for that woman!!! The world needs more men like you!
[deleted]
A previous girlfriend of mine was backpacking Europe and decided to stay at hostels. There were creepers at each one she was at. She slept with 2 pairs of jeans on
I'd never stay in a hostel just hotels with staff on site or close by available 24/7. Safety is super important as well as my privacy.
One advice from another solo traveler. Always read the reviews before booking and read the lowest rated reviews first and believe them if more than one person gives the same review and make your decision on that. Hostels can be great experience if you choose the right one and better pay little extra price if reviews are good rather than choosing the cheapest ones with low ratings.
Thanks for the warning.  It seems as if the creepy older dudes staying in hostels is international.  Sorry you had a bad night - may the rest of your trip be awesome!
That is a hostile hostel!
I was staying at a hostels a few years ago when i was in UNI to socialize and meet new interesting people but have found a lot of weird people both sexes, middle age men who was staring at young women was quite often experience, i was always surprised how solo female travelers are not afraid of staying at such a places, but too it depends on the place you are travelling on the hiking or some remote destinations this kind of traveling it could be fun but for sure not in the places like big cities with high crime rate like Rome or Barcelona
Traveling solo as a girl is a nightmare 😢
Stories like this is what terrifies me about hostels. Sleeping in a room full of strangers, with no privacy, who have easy access to my unconscious body, with only the hope that they are decent people and won't do anything to me. You did the right thing, you're awesome. I hope the rest of your trip goes well.
I’ve been to many hostels in different countries over the years. I like to socialize and most people I encountered have a similar adventurous outlook and share ideas. I prefer securing an available single room for the security, privacy and sometimes it comes with a private bathroom (bonus). They used to come at a very nice low price. Nowadays, some Hotels are competing with Hostels for private rooms. It’s an option anyway. 
More recently I have heard more of the bad incidents regarding solo lady travelers. I don’t wanna sound sexist, but it IS safer for them AND men to travel with another or in groups. Someone to have your back. I’ve met others AT the hostel with similar interests and grouped along with them. 
Also, there are women hostels too. Another option.
It was bad for you, but could have been horrible for her. You were where you were meant to be.
Don't let it ruin the trip. It is a story you can tell all the people you meet on your travels :)
Omg
I like to think there’s a reason that we’re placed in paths that are unpleasant. Imagine if you weren’t there. Imagine if there wasn’t another human that he’d try to lure out so he could assault her. Her life may have been forever changed if not for this off putting experience for you. 

I hope he was removed and/or she left.
this can happen to everyone so it's better to be safe always.
Yeah man you did Gods work this day. You should be proud of yourself.
You handled it exceptionally well and done the right thing kudos to you! Your travels will only have brighter days ahead. Enjoy
Should have taken his photo so that other solo travelers(esp females) will be vigilant. He's a predator and most likely had done this many times. So proud of you for being The Man.
I'm sorry that you had this experience, but I'm sure she will be forever grateful that you shared this experience with her. Thanks for looking out for women!
You deserve the biggest of green flags, sir. Thank you for looking out for her! It’s rare, and I’m sure she was grateful!!!
Good that you took a stand.

This is what I would expect at hostels. Cheap accommodation, where multiple people stay together
Lots of bad people on the trail.   Lots....  Be careful with strangers.
Good for you Op, don’t let this experience cloud your view on solo traveling, we have whittled people down into 3 categories:

1. Normal people who are there to have a good time 
2. People who are there for a reason (problematic people)
3. Hippies 

Good for you for looking after the girl, meeting people like this happens occasionally but you can usually read the signs pretty early on
Which country is this in?
Damn.
Maybe let us know where was it so we can avoid this shitty place
Hostel
Name
Pls? What country
What location n country is this I'm surely avoiding
What country is this
That’s so scary. The only time I stayed in a hostel was in Chicago, so that’s a completely different experience! They actually have “family” rooms so my son and I had a fairly cost effective 2 day trip there!
🤮🤮🤮
Which hostel?
When reading the title I was going to come comment “this is what makes solo travel fun, when you get tested”, but that’s fucking gross. I’m so glad you could warn her about the danger she was in. I hate that for you and her.
Where was this
In what country was that?
Well done OP 💪!
Thank goodness you were there to save that girl! 

I am sorry for your experience but I am glad you protected the woman from this creep. I shudder to think what could have happened otherwise! 😳
Oof terrifying. Good on you bro. Where are you in your travels?
Is it me or did the guy admit he wants to rape the polish women?
Hope that girl immediately checked out or got changed to an all girl dorm
I still don’t get the idea of hostels they’re shitty
Hostel International (HI) is a go to for me. No matter how big or small, it’s always clean, organized, and well staffed. Chicago is my favorite location ❤️
This is crazy. I tend to go to (recommend) chains, with staff available, and etc. Was this hostel favorably rated on hostelworld and etc?
I hope she left.
I didn’t realize hostel rooms were coed. Crazy
You need a blog or insta account to document this
You did a really good thing op and saved that woman from an ordeal.
As a female solo traveller, I haven’t stayed in a hostel I opt for cheaper b&bs instead. My son however, has stayed in several and met people there whom have become close friends. I’m sorry this was your first experience.
Thank you for taking care of this young woman. All decent people appreciate you.
Is there EVER a good story about a hostel? The thought of sharing a bedroom with complete strangers is so off-putting to me.
Ive never stayed in a hostel but hostels need to have separate rooms for girls and guys so these creepy/weirdos guys are not in the same room or if theres any separate female dorms cuz you never know who you stay with
It sucks
In what city did this happen? And you called her a lady so she just be in her 40s?
Wtf is wrong with people??? you definitely did the right thing, OP.
Sounds like a great start. You just helped someone that day.
You are a genuine hero OP. You saved a woman from getting raped.
Where is this? Japan?
you did a good thing telling the girl! well done!
[removed]
Thats why I opt for private rooms
Kudos to you sir. One reason why I don't stay in hostels as a woman
You say that you packed ? What did the girl , is she staying there ? 
I think it's unsafe for an hostel to not having staff at night.

I once was the only girl in a 4 beds female dormitory , staff allowed me to lock the door at midnight as they didn't had other booking. In the middle of the night there was some noise like someone trying to open the door , I was so scared ! Then suddenly a totally drunk foreigner came in ! It was a old man , I couldn't imagine if there wasn't staff available  ! Off course he was too drunk even for stand but we never know , could have a knife or something. After that I wasn't able to sleep so I did my check out in the morning and have find an hotel in my budget.
I don’t know why people even mess with hostels.  Team Hotel 100%
This is why I'll NEVER stay in hostels.
Avoid hostels, period
I would never stay at a hostel 
Solo traveler lady here. Never stayed in a hostel. If I can’t afford a solo hotel, or Airbnb. I won’t go.
Does anyone even know the reasoning for having mixed dormitories (besides maximizing capacity)?
Not sure what you guys expect inside a hostel. Stay in a hotel like a normal human being
Completely unrelated but now feeling self conscious as an Australian man who is almost always shirtless in the room it’s my culture.. 😅
What city did this happen? Also what nationality did the guy look/sound like??!
Why’d you go downstairs if your gut told you not to? I wouldn’t have done that even as a dude..not to excuse his behavior. Gotta watch out for that shit
[removed]
You spent all day in your hostel room?
Yes you did a good thing op!! Good start to your trip by being the knight in shining armor
OP probably saved her from being raped. Jesus Christ, this drunken predator should have been kicked out and arrested asap. What country/city is this?
Best comment!
This is a W take. And damn right. Everything in his life lead him to this moment, where he saved this girl.
Thank you OP for doing that. I hope you recover soon. Where is this place? And how is the girl?
 oh excellent point that he saved the woman.  I’ve only stayed in the hostel once and there was nothing like this.
I was worried when my daughter was in a mixed hostel room with several men. But she was OK.
This is the way I want to look at life!!!
this is exactly what I thought when reading this. The universe put you there to help this girl and you did the right thing, be proud of yourself dude. This girl could have had the worst experience of her life and you saved the day like a goddam hero.
Even better I hope the hostel kicks the creepy dude to the curb.
Don't go to self-service hostels. There should always be staff there. You can chose to stay in female-only bunk rooms, or get a single for extra security. Maybe avoid the "party hostels" if you don't want to deal with super drunk hook up culture. Hostels can be very safe places.
I never stay in mixed dorms, stay in the ones that are gender segregated
I’m guessing this was in Europe, there’s quite a few small scale, one person run (or I guess no person run) hostels that can sometimes be a little strange. If you can, stay at the best rated bigger hostels. Staff at those places have no monetary incentive to keep weirdos around and will kick out people for being creeps. And it should be said, the vast majority of well rated hostel will be a normal or positive, creep free experience.
[deleted]
I know it’s difficult to not let this put you off. I solo travelled to Turkey and stayed in an all female dorm - it was one of my best trips 😊
Stay in only female rooms, but understand you can end up rooming with bad or trashy people still. Get one with good reviews and staff, so you can ask to be moved or refunded. Ideally have a back up plan and access to funds to get out if needed.
There are women only rooms and in all my years traveling I've seen some crazy shit but almost always staff was absolutely great at handling this type of scenarios.
Please if you have to stay in hostel, stay in all female hostels! Stay away from mixed ones! Creep and rapist aren’t  written on their foreheads. Be safe! And enjoy your travels.
Go to hostels where there are staff, I assure you as long as you are careful with the reviews you can absolutely have a good time, I've done plenty of solo travels as a woman. I also tend to select female only bedrooms just for extra security
It is scary, I had a similar experience at one and afterwards I just stuck to hotels. Besides that experience I actually really enjoyed the hostel, was a super cool vibe and very comfortable. I would still use hostels in the future I think, but I'd stick to a female only dorm. Safest option if you're worried about this kind of thing.
If you're traveling solo, I highly recommend staying in an all female dorm, or women only hostels. Stay safe!
Agreed. As the same, thank you OP for handling this the way you did.
Yep this is why I only stay in female only rooms 😳
I've always stayed at female only bunks and had a blast! Research beforehand, choose big or centric hostels and no self-service ones!
In a solo girl and I stay in a ton of hostels, usually mixed rooms.

This is a terrifying experience! I wouldn't say it's the norm though, and there are ways to stay safer like having staff, good reviews, or women's dorms.
Most of the hostels have strict rules. Rooms for lady's only as well. Just ask as I they pack the rooms to their discretion. If you need advice ask as I am managing one and know the rules very well. Safe if you know what to do.
Just pay extra for a hotel, honestly. 
I'm going to hijack this comment to take a moment to thank the "Seeee? This is why I would NEVER stay at a hostel" crowd for self-selecting out of the hostel experience and sparing us their presence.

As a female solo traveler who's been to over 100 hostels, they're totally fine. They're usually more than fine if you stick to the highly rated ones that are slightly more expensive than the cheapest options. I've met truly amazing people and made lasting friends.
He DID save that girl.
I think there's a reason he's staying at "self service" hostels. And it's not because he's trying to save a buck.
Popular hostel in Lithuania, will edit once I get a response from them with the name.
And photo of the creep to circulate among the police
As a fellow female solo traveller, I always stay in female only dorms in hostels and have never had a single problem. It’s usually a tiny bit more expensive than a mixed dorm but I have always felt safe and comfortable, and actually made some nice friends with other girls in my dorm that I’ve stayed in touch with. Just an option to explore if you’re willing to give it a try and might save you a few pennies in the future.
This is a scary experience, but I'm a solo woman and I've been living almost exclusively in hostels for like 3 years now, and I've never had anything so much as stolen (and I gotta be honest I'm not that great about using the lockers even).

There's lots of ways to stay safer, this is definitely still possible and stories like these are rare!
A lot of hostels have private rooms. More expensive, of course, but cheaper than hotels.
Name and shame the hostel, it’s important for other travellers to know about places with poor policies like this
Of course
[deleted]
I wish. They operate on such a low level that they don’t deserve the title of human.
It wasn’t complete self service, just no staff weekends and outside nine to five. I agree though, it is a red flag. I’ll probably only book hostels with significant staff coverage from now on
Saw a man jumping from a rooftop hotel in London last year, still thinking about it quite often
As a woman, my default is to always believe the woman.

But as someone who has stayed in over 100 hostels in 2/3 of Europe, I call absolute bullshit about every single hostel having guests so bad that she needed to sleep with two pairs of jeans on. There are some women who think every interaction with a man is harassment, and she sounds like she could be one of them. Or she needs to enter the Guinness Book of Records for this statistical anomaly.
Most hostels have as much staff as any hotel. Single bed rooms available as well. But to each their own.
I tend to look at newest reviews rather than worst reviews. Multiple people complaining about cold showers three years ago doesn’t mean the showers haven’t improved since if nobody has mentioned it recently. I also think you will always get some negative reviews, some people have unrealistic expectations of hostels, or at least different priorities from yourself, particularly when cultural differences are at play.
OP replied in another comment that it's in Lithuania. Vilnius specifically.
Calling women stupid for choosing co-ed dorms is giving major "she shouldn't have worn that" vibes.
Cool. What are people supposed to do with that information?
There are hostels I go to on a fairly regular basis where I usually book the mixed dorm instead of the female because I know they're safe and they have round the clock reception and impeccable customer service.

My reasoning is that female dorms are more likely to be selected by girls traveling together, and every time you have anyone traveling together, it equals to talking in a dorm.

Generally, if the hostel has extremely high reviews (9,4+) and is popular, I would feel comfortable booking a mixed dorm because they'll most likely have a mechanism for dealing with problematic guests. These places rely on their reputation, and will not let a predator sully it - and predators know this, so they either book elsewhere or stay on their best behavior.
Not everyone travels alone you know?
I’m Australian too. It is not my culture.
Ah yes I'm sure he was just going to try to flirt with her. While she was asleep.
Is your pursuit of sex also centered on people who are unconscious?
I didn’t, but he did, I assume. Every time I was there, so was he.
 Not that unusual
Guess most People now and then need a day in bed While travelling Long time
Any self respecting hostel wpuld have him leave immediately and call the cops if he even hesitated
Put him and photos on hostel black lists.
I've stayed in mixed rooms and never had any trouble.
This! I've stayed in at least 300-400 hostels around the world. 

Pick the top rated "Fancy" looking ones that are reviewed well for being social, even if you aren't looking to party.

I completely disagree with the person who says to avoid party hostels in the general sense. I always feel more secure in the fancy looking party leaning hostels . There are a lot more people around so the chances of being stuck alone with a creep are negligible. 
 the security tends to be far more tight, there's always someone at reception 24/7 and all managerial staff os trained to deal with problematic behaviour. This sort of creepy predatory behaviour is the lowest at party/social hostels and women run boutique hostels.
I've done that more than once. It does work.
Wow that's an over the top generalisation
As a hostel-goer myself I’m really curious what you mean by this. Would you mind elaborating? [Sorry if I’m missing something obvious]
Jimmy jumps in Vilnius?
Are you not afraid someone is going to steal sth from you? I don't know, maybe a stupid question, I was in a hostel once, 20 years ago or so 😅
I can’t remember what it was called it was a few years ago in Amsterdam, I’ll ask my friend and if she knows I will update my comment.
Why?
[deleted]
Agreed. Tf
Somewhere in Europe I’m guessing?
you sound like you be the type to blame women based on what she wore.
I'm not bashing hostels. I did stay in a single room. I guess I'm too old for hostels. My party days were over years ago. I value my sleep too much.
Yeah newer reviews are more reliable and generally the ones rating 2-4 stars give you a bigger indication of the actual pros and cons. Then you can assess if you are happy with that. The 5 and 1 star generally dont tell you much..
Yeah ofcourse. Not all negative reviews are relevant. Like someone says the dorm was noisy, well it’s a dorm afterall. But things like bedbugs or hygiene issues which are basically non negotiable
Feel free to report such comments to the mods and they'll be removed. We try to keep an eye on threads like this because they sometimes attract inappropriate or victim blaming comments
[removed]
How do you know he hadn’t flirted with the girl while you were gone?
there's no such thing as a worldwide hostel blacklist. he probably just wouldn't be allowed back to that specific one.
Ehh I dunno, i agree somewhat, but usually the very best rated hostels aren’t party hostels, as there’s too much noise and drunk shenanigans going on, but I do I agree they’re very safe and generally very well run. But it’s hard to control drunk 19 year olds sometimes. As someone in my 30’s, I’m taking the very well rated smaller, chiller hostel over the very well rated party hostel almost every time.
Wow. That's a lot of hostels. I've stayed in one. 300 to 400 is impressive.
Exactly my thinking, a party hostel that gets a complaint about a guy being legitimately creepy and weird is taken very seriously and not tolerated, even strangers will come together to someone's aid.
I admit I avoid party hostels but that's because I'm a light sleeper and need relative quiet in the room itself.
The girl in OPs story would've been raped if he hadn't been there. It's always better to be safe than sorry.
It’s the reality dude. Be thankful you don’t have to worry about being sexually assaulted as an adult male (well less chance), and try to at least help and protect women in sketchy situations because they go through this night and day.
Not all snakes are venomous but will I put my hand out and find out which one will kill me? No! Take that how you want to take it! Males are physically stronger and we don’t know which one is the rapist creep or good like OP until something happens. We don’t want to find out.
Not over the top generalization.  For you guys it miggt be something that doesn't cross your mind when booking accommodations, but for us it's often a priority. Happy you don't have to worry about that as much as us :)

Not sure what your gender is but assuming you're a dude, this is something we females have to take into consideration a lot more seriously than men do when solo travelling
Self service means no staff to complain to. Nobody to kick him out. And probably no ID check so he can use a fake name.

And since he was just sitting in the dorm all day (not tourist behavior), he was there waiting to be left alone with a potential victim.
Most hostels have lockers in the room :)
I wouldn’t book a hostel without lockers
Very weird comment
Yep very strange thing to say. Lowkey giving shirtless guy energy with that first sentence.
Sadly this issue is not endemic to Poland.
I don't. Rape is always and only the fault of the rapist. But we're not talking about rape, we're talking about an unlikely scenario of every single hostel this girl has stayed at featuring so many unhinged overt creeps that she felt her best recourse was sleeping in two pairs of jeans.

Occam's razor says that this is either bullshit or the girl confuses every interaction with a male as harassment. When you genuinely feel threatened, you leave the place, or you alert the staff so they do something about it.
Thank you, appreciate it.
[deleted]
I'm in my 30's as well and the vast majority of the big and better run hostels I stay at end up being extremely social hostels which get clubbed together with party hostels.  Party hostels isn't a term exclusive to young crowd places any longer. I find that at least half , if not more, of the crowd with me at the expensive ones is above 30. 
I'm 34 and at one such one in Peru right now and  all of my dorm mates are above 30. Mostly mid 30's. 
I'm not sure why everyone is convinced that the majority crowd here seems to be convinced that party equals 19  year old crowd  and shit quality *only* 

I literally just completed a year non stop through all of Latin america, and what you're saying isn't true any longer. Hasn't been for a while
[removed]
Ahh ok yes this makes complete sense. I misinterpreted your original comment and I thought you were referring to OP. My mistake for the confusion:)
[deleted]
Well it kinda depends on the region, party crowds skew much younger in W Europe and SEA than in Latin America.
prejudice among young ppl against older folks is real…there are hostels with max age too
Passing judgement on someone you don't know? Yikes.
There are plenty of 30 - 40 year olds in non party hostels, what are you saying?
I understand the confusion. But yeah, OP is the good guy. He saved that girl from either getting raped or robbed.
You shouldn't feel sorry he feels that way, you should consider why you felt the need to write a comment with a focus on how Polish girls look.
I've travelled extensively through Europe and SEA too and I've never found the expensive hostels to have a majority young crowd. Usually they tend to flock the cheaper party hostels. So I'm still unsure of what you're saying is true. 

Also I very definitely mentioned leaning on party side, not trashy party hostels. I've never seen an expensive fancy social hostel anywhere on the planet that is also trashy 19 year old party crowd .
Honestly, from following these threads it seems like the prejudice towards young people far outweighs the prejudice towards old people.

There are lots of exceptionally well behaved young people and lots of outrageously loud and badly behaved old people. Let's not generalize, shall we?

The age limit is usually on youth hostels . Those are a minority.
In general, older people should leave hostels to the kids, IMO.
Well what you just wrote a few posts up was “I completely disagree with the person who says avoid party hostels” so perhaps that’s where the confusion lies.
Yes it seems to me that the majority of this sub can't differentiate between a party hostel and a trashy party hostel because most people don't seem to venture into the most expensive social hostel spaces. I'm only using the word social because "party" seems to have a bad rep. They're very much party hostels as well. Hence went into detail about the expensive fancy ones. 

Hope this clears it up
I feel like we might live on two different planets, where I’m traveling in E Europe the most expensive hostels are usually the ones with the reputations for being the most social, and its younger travelers who are most likely to pay this premium price, as they value social interaction more than older travelers
Are all digital nomads insufferable?
I meet basically 3 types of people while solo traveling: 
1. Backpackers 
2. Tourist
3. Digital Nomads
And I have to say Digital Nomads are the most annoying of all. They seem entitled and feel superior specially if they find out you don’t travel full time. In my experience, digital nomads do very little to experience new cultures and learn native languages. I hate to generalize and would like to think the reason Digital Nomads are annoying is bc the majority are in tech or creating content. Have you experienced the same?
The instagram crowd is the only one I find insufferable.  They just live to show off for others, they dont really experience what they are bragging about.
Mostly of the  "tech" travellers I ve met were fine and those usually does not care about social media stuff 

But there is the content creators and some tech ppl who feels superior and basically their whole lifestyle is just for Instagram/Social Media - they usually think they are nomads who understand more about life bc they are eating avocado toasts in Bali or smth 

Social Media kills personality
outside of my username i would never call myself a nomad in conversation with other people. when people ask how long i'm travelling i just say i'm on a long trip for a year or something, i find it embarassing to discuss. 

i think it's mostly the dbags who want to bla bla bla about being nomads that are super obnoxious....some of us are just doing our own thing and don't need to tell the whole world.
Ultimately all three are tourists.
I've met some "nomads" who were pretty smug (and loud) about it, but others who were very down-to-earth. And have seen some comments in the digital nomad subreddit that were pretty shockingly awful things to say, though those get downvoted (at least sometimes.....).

But among all travelers more broadly, there's a mix of personality types, from kind and respectful to rude and self-absorbed. As much as travel gets romanticized as something that can help people learn and grow, there are people out there who travel all over the world and don't learn a damn thing. 

Mod note: this post sort of borders on breaking the subreddit's "no rants" rule, but I've approved it and left it up for now. May lock the thread if it devolves into people fighting and breaking subreddit rules - reminder of rule 2!
I have met more life coaches that were digital nomads than anywhere else in my life.
The "I'm a traveller not a tourist" people are also insufferable.  As well as the begpackers and the ones who think they're superior for looking for 'authentic' experiences. So there are annoying people in all the categories you mentioned.

But yes the social media crowd who are only concerned with looking cool on Instagram and getting likes are up there with the most insufferable people to come across.
I have noticed there’s this weird flex. Like they’ll go somewhere cheap and then pay 1500 a month to stay in a private room in a hostel full of other digital nomads to just work on their laptop in front of each other. It’s like when people started working on their script or screen plays in cafes. 

But most I’ve come across you wouldn’t know it unless you asked because they don’t bring it up
Wow, I met a really nice one in a hostel Merida. She was one of my favorite people that I met while traveling. But my experience is limited.
" I hate to generalize..."  
This whole post is nothing but a generalization
Man, just worry about finding your own tribe, you’re only making yourself miserable categorizing and denigrating different people
And what, in your mind, is the difference between "backpackers" and "tourists?"  Let me guess, "backpackers" are more interested in "authentic" experiences, right?

And which one do you see yourself as?  Wait wait, let me guess...
I find the “power couples” annoying. The ones joined at the hip, can’t do anything without the other. The second you talk to one, it’s all “My girlfriend/boyfriend and I are doing this…with some sort of meticulous plan definitely not including you. 
This particularly annoying couple kept taking pictures of these village kids in northern Laos, I doubt they’d take pictures of any random western kids without their parents permission.
I manage to travel for 4 or 6 months a year. If you are changing countries every month, it's impossible to learn a new language in such a short time. You can memorize hellos, pleases and sone basic phrases, but this is not learning a new language.

Expecting people to dedicate themselves to learning the language of each new country is as smug as belittling ppl that can't travel for longer periods of time.
All kinds of people are “insufferable”, doesn’t matter how you interpret their identity. More often than not, you just don’t know enough about another person’s story. I’d challenge you to get to know people rather than make snap judgements. And I’m in no way throwing shade. I still catch myself making snap judgements, but we owe it to eachother to lend some grace and be curious
Why not focusing on your own journey and other people instead of getting worked up about people you are not vibing with?
Backpackers are tourists. Ones that try to claim otherwise are far more insufferable than any digital nomad I have ever met. They feel like the way they want to experience a country is morally superior to anything anyone else wants to do, and they are going to make damn sure you're aware how much better than you they think they are.
I've always hated "i'm not a tourist, I'm a traveller"...what an eye roll.
I did the digital nomad thing for a short while a few years ago and hated it, I much prefer just travelling. I really resented being somewhere new and not being able to go off and explore the same way I would if my time was all mine. It's not really travelling in my opinion, so definitely nothing to feel superior about.

I have a friend who did a digital nomad stint across Asia for 6 months - she was fully remote but working for a pretty intense company at the time. I don't think she can count one one hand the number of sites she saw or places she went outside of her accommodation. That just sounds depressing to me, not freeing as it's supposed to be.

And yeah the younger insta/content creator digital nomad crowd are insufferable, but the folks in their 20s, 30s and 40s like me just working remotely were generally a good bunch - and most agreed that the 'lifestyle' wasn't all it was cracked up to be. The only exceptions were those who had relocated longterm to somewhere cheaper with better weather, so got to do the cool stuff at the weekends.
I know I have absolutely nothing in common with content "creators" so I don't bother talking to them.
Are you implying that people abusing their economic position in cheaper places than their home countries to the detriment of locals while not being able to speak the language nor participating in the community are bad persons?

It’s just globalized gentrification.
So I love to travel, and have been planning to become a “digital nomad” since before I knew the term existed. I joined r/digitalnomad expecting it to be other people who also love to travel and looking to find ways to travel “permanently.”

Instead it’s a lot of angry dudes who either can’t get laid in the US/their home country or can’t afford the lifestyle they want in their home country, so they go to a LCOL country in LatAm/SEA where they’ve been told they can “LiVe LiKe A kInG” on 30k a year and all the women there will want them because they are “rich” and white. 

There’s also a weird “red pill-esque” ideology on that sub. Not universally true, but there are often comments about “western women” and how they all want “chads” who make 100k+ a year. (I.e. it’s dudes who can’t get laid, making excuses for why they can’t get laid)

But at the end of the day, a irl DN is just as likely to be insufferable as a backpacker/tourist. I think the subreddit is just particularly bad because Reddit’s demographics lead to it being a lot of tech bros with weird thoughts about women.
No. But the annoying ones are 100x easier to find and notice.
I think people that work remote in other countries can be fine. I do think that people that refer to themselves as a “digital nomad” are often pretentious and douchey. Just like tourists who call themselves “backpackers” or “travelers.” It’s really just anyone that use unnecessary titles to make them seem different or unique are often the type of people that I don’t enjoy interacting with.
I know one who's "nomadic lifestyle" is insufferable. Travels with a total of 3 t-shirts and as soon as he arrives somewhere: "Where's the washing machine?! Why is there not one?! How am I supposed to stay here?!" Hmm, somehow the other 5 people in the group with the same size luggage brought enough clothes for a week.
Haven't encountered any Digital nomads on my travels & thank God - I fear I would end in in prison for murdering one if I did.

I have read a few travel blogs that were written by these people though, I only did it because I wanted inspiration for what I could write about on my own travel blog. I didn't find inspiration though, I honestly ended up wanting to write an article on why I hated travel bloggers. I ended up not doing my own blog, I just didn't want to fall into the same trap, writing about the same things, monetizing everything.
As a flight attendant just enjoying a destination, meeting a digital nomad stressing about finding good wifi is kind of satisfying for me.

You should see their posts complaining about not being able to date in Colombia. Apparently there's been a lot of drugging involving dating apps.
Are you talking about digital nomads or influencers? As a digital nomad and a backpacker myself, I can shed some light on how our days are spent: I generally have to work between 4-6 hours a day, 5 days a week, I try to work out daily, and then socialize either with locals or other tourists. And as someone who speaks 5 languages, I find your annoyance strange. It seems like you had a bad experience and you're now painting with a wide brush.
The only reason why some digital nomads have bothered me is because half of the conversations I've had with them when travelling have been about them working remotely and being able to live wherever and travel whenever. It's almost like they sometimes can't talk about anything else and they act like their job makes them superior.
I'm okay with some people but the folks that work and need their lattes and WiFi and avocado toast yet look down at folks that are just traveling or on a tour and not seeing "the real" city. They always hate it when I point out that most of the natives don't drink $5 lattes and talk about how quaint and cheap everything is. And don't get me started about not speaking the language-"everyone here speaks English!" Yes when you live in the most exclusive neighborhoods of the city.
I'm always on holiday. Nobody needs to know I'm a DN
The nomad I met who was most smug about traveling and being cultured ate pizza for every meal, drank three bottles of wine a day, was rude to waitstaff, and never left the neighborhood. This was in Mexico City
I'm starting to find a lot of the backpacker crowd pretty insufferable as well. They're often just smug tourists who are really really cheap but can always pull the chute and fly home to their parent$. Then they have this gatekeepy attitude about how "authenticly" they travel. Add in a heaping dose of eye rolling internet spiritually and the de rigueur insta-yogi fashion. At least fannypack tourists help locals make a good living.
I imagine all those douchey privileged white people from The Beach 🤷🏻‍♂️
I don’t know why, but as an Aussie I find the most insufferable Australians abroad. Really love hamming up the accent, create insular shit-talking groups at hostels, obligatory gun jokes whenever an American is around. Combine that with a digital nomad and I’d walk straight out of the room.
4. Chinese tourists
To me the hostel crowd is toughest to be around. They tend to be after drinking and fucking (with maybe a hike mixed in) and I’ve certainly never met one that is learning the local language
Personally I like most travellers I meet. We share the same passion so usually connect instantly. This includes digital nomads. We all need to fund our travels some way and digital nomads are the same.

If anything I feel bad when I meet someone who is working 40-hours a week in a hostel while I get to play cards and drink.
Yes, but with an important caveat. 

Digital nomads who *self-identify as digital nomads* are for the most part insufferable. It's the same as a content creator who self-identifies as an influencer. Or a backpacker who self-identifies as looking for "authentic" experiences. 

People who just happen to work while traveling don't fit this category.
Thanks for posting this.  I won’t disparage 100% of them, but the majority are insufferable.  

Just the act of adopting the label is usually a sign you’re dealing with someone clueless about their self-absorption.  Digital Nomads tend to be the competitive ego trippers of modern travel.  It’s rife with paint-by-numbers creativity, faux travel “careers” to avoid real work as much as possible.  Instagram adventure sharing for unwitting victims of an obvious marketing scam.  Rebellion without self-awareness. Chasing the best WiFi and social mix while obsessing about image, lifestyle, and the best ways to skirt laws, avoid accountability, and run from responsibility.  They are (in general) surprisingly bad at the language, culture, appreciation, geography, and history of the places they gather.  

Now, it’s certainly not the case for all remote workers and mature adults who cut their teeth building career skills to earn more freedom in their work.  It may improve over time,  But when someone refers to themselves as a Digital Nomad, I have to try hard not to be judgmental about their ethics and quality of work.
I definitely got this superior vibe when I was in Malaysia. Too cool for school, nose buried in a laptop. Barely greeting anyone. Working on something that can't be explained in simple language. Working in the same cafe everyday but never bothering to learn the servers name. They all irked me. I noticed that they seem like early 20s, so what this smugness is based on, I have no idea.
Absolutely. Plus there’s also the fact that they raise the cost of living significantly for the people that actually live there. Scum in my eyes frfr
Yes. Digital nomads don’t have a good reputation and there’s been backlash in places like Mexico against these people for those very reasons. They are modern day colonization soldiers who are oblivious to the negative impacts their lack of respect and embracing of the cultures they’re surrounded by. They do have that arrogant air about them as well…
So, as someone who would be considered a "digital nomad" (though I do my best to avoid calling myself that because it's so douchey) we have our share of asshats. In my experience it's mostly the "influencer" set who are the biggest assholes with the tech bromads coming in a close second. I've been living this lifestyle since before the term existed and there is a reason I avoid nomad hubs. However, I've also met some really great folks who live like this that I've been friends and hung out with all over the world. So, no. They're not all bad.
Even the name ‘digital nomad’ pisses me off tbh
I suppose I don't meet many DNs as majority of them aren't staying where I'm staying lol. (I'm a subcategory of #2 - work away/remote tourist). Trying to live like locals actually really sucks in many parts of the world, so I'm just third-party observer and don't pretend otherwise.

Those personalities are funny no matter if they are DN or not. If you think about it, they actually "travel" in the literal sense less than I do as a tourist because they stay in one place for long periods of time (like are they actually traveling at that point?). I go places multiple times a year and always move around with a rental car, etc., so I *definitely* cover more air distance and *maybe* more ground distance than a DN--I just don't make it a full-time flex or try to.

But as others said, the IG "influencers" (or wannabes) take the cake. They'll hog photo spots and stuff for half an hour.
I don’t like the digital nomads I meet who lie to their companies about where they are or take like a mental health leave just to travel or get a student visa to stay in Europe but don’t actually intend to do the degree.  

Other than that they’re fine.
I think it's less the actual digital nomad workers (i.e. the teachers, the on-the-go programmers and online businesspeople) and more the digital nomad influencers (the posers on the 'gram who make money by posing on the 'gram and calling it a job). They are all obnoxious I have no interest in their fake, miserable lifestyle.
Most of us digital nomads you meet don’t bring up the fact that we are digital nomads. I’m just a backpacker who has to stay inside and go online sometimes. But yeah the people you’re referencing suck butt. The instagramification of the world has done this to us.
cross-post this to /r/digitalnomad, you coward
You are perhaps attracting the wrong people, I think. All of the types listed tend to make themselves incredibly obvious, so it should be easy enough to immediately recognize them and regard them them as background noise; an obstacle to be avoided while on your own journey. When you filter out the noise, you're left with just the locals and the other travellers that aren't trying to make a spectacle of themselves. 

If you can position yourself to attract *those* people, you'll have some of the most meaningful interactions of your life. Sure, you'll still get accosted from time to time by some random, overly excited person asking you to hold their camera while they do some weird Instagram shit. But if you look like you're cool and calm, then cool and calm people will generally just gravitate to you. 

In the end, you've always got an escape mechanism if some obvious social-media junkie tries to bother you: just pretend you don't speak their language. "I do not English" works every time.
My girlfriend and I both work online and travel, but we never refer to ourselves as nomads for this reason. 

Pretty much anyone I met who referred to themselves as that were quite insufferable!
Ck nomadically Ryan on tt & ig. Unusual sort.
Influencers drive me insane.  Restaurant here in town is exceptional.  There was a Japanese influencer couple who must be well known due to the other Japanese tourists reaction to seeing them.  Ordered three pieces of pork and made a huge deal of the restaurant and consumed half a piece.  Got in their car and moved onto their next location.  See influencers at that particular restaurant often but these two made fools of themselves….
it's weird how many people who travel a lot are racist
I am an American living in vietnam off of vetern disability at 22 years old, and I can completely attest to this nomads are the most annoying people I've met while here
I think its easy to sound like a douche when you say you travel full time and work form anywhere in the world. It’s hard to phrase that in a way that doesn’t sound like you’re showing off. I feel like people are too quick to judge them or feel defensive around them, when they’re just excited travellers who usually love what they do. 

Now the social media / influencer crowd, that’s a different story.
Solo travellers make me cringe
Weirdo loners with no friends trying to get dopamine via travel
Not to burst your bubble, but tourists are backpackers are the same for all intents and purposes.
EXPATS - I read somewhere expats are white people call themselves when they are immigrants
There are many people who travel to the same type of area in different cities yet think they are cultured and therefore better than other people. Like, “Wow, you’ve lived in the gentrified expat areas of Berlin, the gentrified expat areas of Mumbai, and the gentrified expat areas of Bangkok? Amazing.”

These are the insufferable digital nomads you have described.
...I'm a nomad, but only for like 40 days at a time, then I go home. I guess I'm just a tourist with a laptop?

I sure hope I'm not unintentionally being rude to people.
After many years of being in the DN world, I came to a similar conclusion (and also acknowledged I was part of the problem) 

Many Digital Nomads have pretty serious trauma & personal baggage they are carrying, it's not a "normal" lifestyle for many reasons, it's not normal to want to leave your entire family, friends, and support system  to be alone thousands of miles away unless something has gone wrong back home. 

The kind of stamina this lifestyle demands requires someone who is used to being alone 

Sure, everyone wants to travel, but in this community Ive noticed an abundance of mental health & attachment issues people are trying to run from.
I've lived in several cities that attract a lot of digital nomads, so I've seen a lot of them at home at overseas while traveling. I don't care if I'm generalizing, they're awful.

They are not only entitled/insufferable pricks, but they also have a gate-keepy attitude about traveling in general. They are the type of people to claim that they are "travelers, not tourists." These digital nomads scoff at the average tourist, while ironically making no attempt to adapt to the local culture.

They can't or don't attempt to learn the language, ruin neighborhoods by renting airbnbs that make rent unaffordable for the average resident, and expect special treatment. Then they sod off to the next destination and yap about how they had a "local, authentic" experience. 

All in all, digital nomads are hedonistic bimbos living day to day through destructive consumerism without even knowing or refusing to acknowledge the consequences of their actions. I wish they'd fuck off. Walking disasters with macbooks.
I mean, we can go all day and generalize all three groups if you want lol

All backpackers are broke shoestring travelers who just spend all day in hostels drinking and mingling with other foreigners 

Tourists just spend money on tours and experiences that are insulated from the *real* locals 

Dumb observation
Most of us (or at least I) worked hard AF to get here, and inevitably we'll get a bit of gloating in this crowd. Doesn't make it any less annoying though.
What about sexpats or passportbros ?
Which of the 3 are you?
Says a lot about you and your way of travel that your encounters are mostly limited to these three categories....
Not to mention they are a big source of issues for locals due to their ability to buy up expensive property and increasing costs for locals.
I'm one and I don't even like calling myself that. We aren't all douchebags but so many are
Yes
number 2 is what i enjoy most because they admit they are tourists but 1 and 2 think they are different (e.g. 'travelers').
I found a couple that was indeed a digital nomad but would never call themselves that.. we met in Jamaica during COVID - I was abusing my temporary WFH privileges and they had officially got remote positions and were country hopping. They seemed chill, quiet and generally enjoyed each others presence. They weren’t boastful at all
Fuck digital nomads what a lame term for some reason it rubs me the wrong way. They are just lazy fuks who can’t get a real job and exploit third world countries especially the Philippines where they click bait everything. They don’t even give a shet about the country and exploit for views for income especially these whacked out punk YouTubers and instagrammers/tiktokers. I despise travel vloggers they are vile creatures
I agree 1000 percent. Digital nomads are cheap, entitled, and rude. A lot of them just seem.. uneducated. 🤷🏻‍♀️
I think I'm nicee.... :(
You are generalizing, and I haven't met many of these people... guess it's the people you choose to associate with, or your path has led you to meet.
Bumpackers are the worst of all 3.
Well, if ever there was a space to meet insufferable people with an unearned superiority complex it's the tech industry.
I am a digital nomad and I speak several languages fluently I dont feel superior to anyone - if anything I crave a more stable existance back home.
I wanted to call my self a Digital nomad until I started meeting them 😂😂
I think I’ve only met 1 digital nomad that isn’t annoying, a girl from New York 

The rest it seems like they make it their identity. Same as the people that refer to themselves at Expats instead of… immigrants
As someone who has had to work on vacation (aka not a digital nomad but close) I think it’s hard to overestimate how difficult it is to work at US times, and still have energy to go out and “be on vacation” (aka learn about the culture, native language). I’m guessing you haven’t been to all the tourist hot spots in your home town. It’s a problem for all of us. 

The worst was when I fell asleep in a meeting when I was doing this. Woke up the next morning and realized that I hoped no one noticed. Luckily I was officially “on vacation” and 10 hours ahead, but it potentially would have been a disrespectful thing to whomever was speaking.
Many of the male digital nomads are sex tourists.
The reason they're a bit annoying is probably because they're still in "work mode" rather than "holiday mode". 

I could probably get away with travelling and working but I need to switch off to really be the best version of myself.
I find people that think you have to learn a language to spend a week and a half sightseeing insufferable
You forgot number 4. The people who travel and then go on reddit and complain about other people that are travelling instead of having a good time, stop focusing on other people and focus on yourself and your journey.

I work online and have travelled for a considerable amount of time but would never call myself a digital nomad, it's cringe. It's not something I have ever brought up in conversation as I genuinely don't think it's anything to rave about.

I'm also not sure if I have ever met anyone who has identified themselves as a digital nomad, it's normally a label others stick on them.

Also, backpackers and tourists are the same thing. The days of backpacking are pretty much dead, it blows my mind seeing so many people struggle with a backpack on their back, one on their front and then two smaller bags... get a suitcase... become a tourist.
"IM AMERICAN BUT I DONT REALLY RELATE TO THEM. IM A FREE SPITIT"
you're not wrong
90% are. Especially the ones coming from Australia. Obnoxious and entitled. 
You've pissed off the "nomads"
i am so glad to see this as a post & that it has a bunch of likes bc I thought it was just me who though DN were the worst. 

I relocated to mexico & had never really heard about DN and then met a buuunch and my god. Making new friends in the city, in your 30s, trying to sift through chill people is like a needle in a haystack when the majority are DN
Digital nomads are the biggest useless stains on society, they just consume and waste and complain. Utterly useless
Tell us about yourself? Who are you, what makes _you_ insufferable?
No, some of us are naturally superior.
There are also a lot of "Digital Nomads" that are just Prostitutes.. Especially in Dubai  they call them " Dubai Porta Potty"
As someone with a remote job who likes to solo travel I watched some YouTube vlogs and other videos about digital nomads for about a week. I definitely got this vibe. 

Like it sounds nice to a degree but it also feels like they are kinda just going to other countries to inflate costs, gentrify, kill the organic vibe and culture of the country, and just hang out with other nomads. 

I dont want to be overly judgmental. I realize by solo traveling as a tourist I’m doing the same thing to a degree… but it just seemed very exploitative to me and I feel like if I did it I would feel really guilty about it.
Sounds like jealousy to me lol
[deleted]
impossible sink dam frightening unwritten fearless correct sort jeans soup

 *This post was mass deleted and anonymized with [Redact](https://redact.dev/home)*
Brah the complaints on the post are insufferable.  🤣
They all worship Lost LeBlonian it seems. Especially in Bali.
As a "digital nomad," I may be insufferable but not really for the reasons you listed.

But yes, you are correct, many digital nomads suck and are exactly as you describe, flocking to the hotspots like Bali, Medellin, etc.
You sound like you got too much time on your hands. I travel with my girlfriend therefore don't worry about the types of travelers there are because I never have to talk with them. And about the languages, it's easy as hell to learn Spanish and portuguese- try traveling around Asia and "learn the languages" as you travel thru 🤣 silly man. I think that's what maybe you find annoying is that full-time people and short time people have two different realities- you're over here thinking ppl are sitting around taking a cooking class and mastering language in each country hahahahahahah
Some legit portrait/action photographers lose out in cultivating their trade, but yes, the IG-for-sport crowd is the worst.  In extremely crowded spaces I will bisect a photo shoot, given the extreme inconsiderateness of those photographed.
Come to think of it. I've never really met any digital nomads during my travels. My favorite folks are the ones that just dipped out the grind. I love a 40-60 year old couple that sold everything, quit their jobs, and chase summer all year young. They are my inspo.
>In my experience, digital nomads do very little to experience new cultures and learn native languages.

And there's surely no selection bias involved here in determining which types of people you, a random temporary tourist who also likely doesn't speak the local language, would have encountered, or in what types of settings you may have encountered them.
Idk which category I fall under, probably backpacker? I work the year in Canada, save money, travel the winter. While I'm traveling I don't work (outside of the odd volunteering to keep costs down, or teaching English or whatever) and I don't engage much with social media, more just to keep in touch with friends and family. Wash, rinse, repeat.
This 100%. It’s like the type of person who brings their computer to “work” at a bar. Like you go to the bar to drink and decompress from work and chop it up with your friends. The internet ruined the 9-5 where now people can be accessible any time of day anywhere in the world. You travel to experience new things and leaving your old life behind for a little while, while you throw yourself into something wholly new. Traveling is sacred and should be separated from work like church and state (in theory) 😂
Also like if you’re ballsy enough to quit your job or get time off and jet somewhere to experience a sunset over the Sahara or whatever that takes guts and determination—traveling naturally weeds out the weaklings or lame people before the “remote” type work was a thing. Think about it.. those people are supposed to be in cubicles right now. Making spreadsheets. How exciting does that sound. 


I live in a small town that at one point during covid was taken over by those digital working types and they don’t do anything to assimilate, complain A LOT, and they’re not in that location for the right reasons.  They drive up prices and look down on the locals. Luckily they couldn’t really hang and a lot of them left but there’s still remnants of it.
This question itself seems a bit insufferable... who cares how other people enjoy their time in another country? There are smug people everywhere, for example


Smug tourists who think that because they have money and have paid for the tour/excursion/all-inclusive package, that they be treated like royalty


Or smug backpackers that are so determined to get the best prices or no cost at all, that they'll abuse others' generosity, or worse, think it's okay to "sneak" into places they don't belong.


There will always be members within any group that give the whole group a bad name. Focus on your own flaws, be patient with other people's flaws, and always remember to judge people, not groups/demographics.
I live in a city that has been overrun with both the IG and digital nomad.

The local cafes resemble offices more than cafes with all the laptops and conference calls going on. I mean seriously, who is so unaware that they zoom or call without headphones in a cafe beside other patrons?
Some cafes now have stickers on their tables announcing that laptops are not allowed..
I haven't met many, but the few i did were all nice and not like you are describing. Might depend on what kind of job they do.
Before Internet, a Digital nomad, was someone selling drugs, to be able to travel for a long time.
You guys meet people while solo traveling?
Nope I haven't. I've met an incredibly larger type of people, that I usually classify differently.

There are the people who are living/working in the place, and those who are visiting the place.

Those who visit are very diverse. They do that for a variety of reasons. Those who wanna live a different experience, those who wanna change their mind from their daily routine, those who don't know what to do with their lives, those who don't know what to do with their holidays, those who wanna get high for cheap, those who chase a specific weather, a specific type of landscape, those who wanna add a tick in a country list, those who come because work send them there, those who come because they wanna make more money ... 

Those who live there, for the most part have hardly ever been somewhere else. There's a huge variety of them, even in a single place. See your hometown for instance. See how many in your hometown meet backpackers, and you'll have an idea of how much of a country you see when backpacking.

&#x200B;

Tourists and backpackers are not that different by my definition. The main difference is what kind of accomodation they prefer, and whether they wanna socialize with their peers or not. 

As for digital nomads, don't believe most of them are like the ones who share their experience on social medias or wanna be in backpackers places to socialize with them. There are plenty others, who just don't cross path with backpackers often.
1 and 2 are the same.
This post feels like bait but I'll bite. 

No I have not experienced the same. 

In 9 years of pretty consistent traveling I can count on one hand how many other travelers I have come across that were "insufferable".  And nobody has ever cared about how much I travel besides one guy I met once that had like 30 country flags tattooed on him, seemed to be traveling as if it were a competition 😆

It's also pretty easy to just...not talk to the finance and tech guys if you find them annoying?  9/10 times they're pretty busy on laptops, or if you can overhear them talking about crypto you can just not talk to them. 

But also, backpackers are tourists, digital nomads are also often tourists, we are mostly all tourists of some kind in this group.
Digital nomads do things like draft spam emails, answer DMs for onlyfans, draft clickbait headlines for people...they are basically content creators and influencers who couldn't be bothered to put in the work required so they resorted to piece work
I don’t know. I was one many years ago, at the time we didn’t have a fancy name, I was just a remote worker. I enjoyed my freedom and flexibility to work from the other side of the world. I’ll always feel incredibly lucky to have had that experience. I tried to learn basic words in the languages of the countries I was in out of respect. I never looked down on people travelling for a shorter amount of time (??). I was not making loads of money but I was obviously making more than locals from the countries I was visiting, so I tried to be mindful and I liked to believe I was somehow helping their economy. Eventually it got too lonely and I decided to go back to my home city, but until then I had to pinch myself to believe that was actually my life. I was so lucky to be going through that. To see life in such a different way, to learn about other ways of being in life, to try other types of food, even simply to experience a different climate was exciting to me. I don’t know how it is nowadays. Back then I met some really cool nomads and some were pretty shit, but I guess that’s the same anywhere in life.
Working on a tourist visa be like that
Digital nomad here. Hated explaining what I did for a living over and over again so I would always say I was a mail man back home and was traveling on my savings.
i find DNs and expats to be annoying. but i find anyone annoying if they travel lots but don’t care for culture or are always wanting their current location to be more like another location. like ik i like learning languages and adore learning about culture and people no matter where i am and *that’s just me* but i can’t understand traveling full time but always complaining about the lack of English on menus and signs.
I'm a digital nomad and I don't feel that I'm that way. I study the language online, research and explore the area, make friends with locals and other travelers and generally enjoy the experience of a new country. It would be a major bummer if everyone assumed I was "insufferable" just bc I'm traveling while working.
I always find people that feel superior amusing and encourage them to keep talking about themselves, it makes me giggle
Paging Nate & Kara!
Passport bro didn’t make this list????

I’m a digital nomad and I just work most days and spend my weekends exploring. People ask what I do and are genuinely curious about WFH travel most of the time. I’m helpful and tell them where to get started.

But passport bros?!?! All they do is take advantage of the economic discrepancy between them and the country they’re in. They disparage women from their own countries, and pretty much treat women like objects.

THEY are the insufferable ones. If you pair the two, you get an alpha Chad who thinks he owns the world because he works from anywhere and his sub-par looks are celebrated bc he throws around cash in a poor country.
> In my experience, digital nomads do very little to experience new cultures and learn native languages. 

Why should we? It's perfectly fine if we want to travel to a spot just to chill and speak English.
I've met nomads that are living like locals or otherwise being regular people.

I've also met nomads that have lived in Playa Del Carmen for months, but when we go for a walk they're horrified to see people in poverty or police on the streets (complete with a comment to the effect of "but why wouldn't they *just stop being poor*?), because this is the first time they've seen it.... before finding out that the only places they've been are their Airbnb, their co-working space full of other nomads, one particular restaurant that is owned by American ands serves American food ("beer is only $9 USD, so cheap here!"), or beach clubs (along with the complete lack of understanding that you can actually go to the beach WITHOUT paying a $50 beach club entry)... And the taxis directly between each of those. And yes these are actual people I've met.

So it depends. There are shitty nomads. There are non shitty nomads.

I imagine the non-shitty ones don't make it so obvious that they're nomads and try to fly under the radar without you even realizing they're there.

There are times I've been at some tourist attraction and I see someone hop out of a taxi, smack an amazed looking expression on their face, take a bunch of photos/videos of them looking around in wonder, and then get back in the taxi without actually looking around. Those are obvious and stand out. 

There are also people quietly doing their work in their apartment and going to the market for groceries that don't stand out.
Well, they call themselves 'digital nomads' that sounds pretty douchy to me.
Are All Backpackers Insufferable?  


I meet basically 3 types of people while solo traveling:  
Digital Nomads  
Tourist  


Backpackers. And I have to say backpackers are the most annoying of all. They seem arrogant and feel superior specially if they find out you don't travel the way that they do. In my experience, backpackers love gloat about how they do everything to experience new cultures and learn native languages. I hate to generalize and would like to think the reason backpackers are annoying is bc the majority are gap year kids or trust fund babies, and have the luxury of time without working to travel extensively. Have you experienced the same?
Well, I guess they have finally buried "The Ugly American"? 

RIP, I suppose.
Yes indeed they are
I’m an old lady so I just keep walking. I don’t have time to wait while they do their photo shoot. If it’s a normal person taking a quick snap of the kids at the zoo I wait and am respectful. I’ve been too many places where people are doing unauthorized photo shoots and demanding everyone stay out of the way. F that noise.
yeah they’re a tough hang
I hate the term even tho I guess I qualify as one.
I think the “experience new cultures” thing doesn’t pertain to just digital nomads. There’s plenty of backpackers/tourists that want nothing more but restaurants and getting drunk on their vacations. I try deeply to engrain myself in whatever culture I’m in at the moment and try my best to learn at least basics of the language.
I haven’t learned the local language, so what? I read the news and know more about what is going on in my city than the language nerds trying to smash locals.
Amen. I know someone who's so incredibly obnoxious about it. It's sad
Yes
Maybe not *all* but certainly the ones I know - can I actually see the view please, I don’t want to look at your butt thanks
If you're in Latin America - it's a bad sign that they are not studying Spanish (esp if they claim to be living there long term). It's such an easy language and if you plan to live there, it's not time consuming and it's a no brainer. 

I've met a few guys that were like "I already speak the most important language (English)", and they ended up being kinda unpleasant and weird imo. I get not wanting to learn another language. It's boring, but this line of thinking is a bit conceited.

There's 2 other camps of people that make no effort to learn Spanish while living in Latam - low IQ and lazy. These dudes are cooler, but obviously come with their own problems.

A lot of digital nomads let their newfound status go to their heads. They're automatically in the top 5 percent economically and a lot of latinas like white guys. These dudes are easy to spot. Steer clear. They're also targets for getting drugged in some places. They tend to think that all the attention they get from girls is genuine, making them a very easy target.
People who judge others are most insufferable ;)
In Dubai you can take a sunset desert safari. It's a fun crazy experience but in the middle, at sunset, there's a nice moment where you can enjoy a quiet moment of reflection,  take a sunset photo,  pray with the Muslims, whatever. But these 2 effing girls who thought they were supermodels ruined it for everyone. Like, dude, take your shot and get out of the way. An actual professional would have gone somewhere else where the sand wasn't all tramped over.
100% yes
I was in the international traveller grungy hippy scene in the eatly 90s.  You kind of got "status" if you stayed in a place for a while.  Own room, know the locals, got the weed hookups, know where the parties are, whatever.  There was a kind of elitism for that too, but ya kinda had to put in the work, be sincere, and you could still be a cool person.  Better for you if you were.

Altho old now, I still dip into that scene sometimes.  I think a lot of the DNs are what we used to call "trustafarians".  Travelling on daddy's credit card while pretending to be Jack Kerouac.  Only now they also pretend to be working.  Im not sure many of the ones I meet are really making enough money to sustain themselves.  How many IG models are making anything unless theyre doing only fans? Or have sugar daddies?  It was true of the old travelling dead head scene and burningman people too.  Not saying there arent sincere nomads, there are.  But theres def a subset of the entitlement crowd.
I host a long term rental (30 days plus) airbnb in a major US city, so many of our 'residents' are digital nomads.  I find that some of them, are on the move for a reason.  Many of them have psychological, addiction, and / or relationship issues.  They be quite a handful.  So I can see why you might find them annoying.
I couldn't agree more.
I came across one guy in Kuala Lumpur, who made it look like he was staying in 5\* resorts. In actuality, he was Couchsurfing, would sneak onto rooftops/into pool areas of 5\* resorts, snap a few pictures, and then leave when they'd figure out he wasn't a paying guest. Helped that he was white and super fit. He was pedalling this luxury lifestyle but was actually sofa-hopping while carrying all his luggage in an IKEA bag (I kid you not). No judgment - I met him as we were Couchsurfing with the same host, who was also bemused at the disconnect between his IG and reality - but what he was selling certainly wasn't how he was living.
100!! The ones that will hog that perfect photo spot while others wait and spend 10 minutes flicking thru a thousand different poses while looking like an absolute insufferable kook in the process.
air airport unique entertain abundant slimy one waiting friendly work

 *This post was mass deleted and anonymized with [Redact](https://redact.dev/home)*
Yes, blocking the nice spots for what feels like hours to get the perfect pic. They are often also very rude about "their" space. Ffs we all came here for the thing and would like to a have picture of it and/or of us with it
lol At the Louvre while waiting in line for the Mona Lisa i didn't know whether to laugh or cry when 95% of the line was just looking at their phone readying their camera for a selfie. I don't think anyone even saw the painting with their own eyes, only through their phone, because they didn't give a sht about the painting they only cared about grabbing a selfie to prove they were there.
Agreed.  I have met a few digital nomads in Asia and had no problems with them.  

Instagram models...I will not go an inch out of my way or wait one second for them.
I was once taking photos of a small church in London when, totally ignoring me, a young woman walked up the steps and started posing for her photographer in front of the ornate door. I waited for a couple minutes, then got really annoyed when they stood there going through their shots. I asked if they minded if I take a couple photos, too. She smiled brightly, and said, "Okay!" and struck a pose. I said, "Um, I meant the church." Her demeanor immediately changed to a scowl, but she moved.
Also the fact that they don't make $$ from their "creating" often, but more likely from selling people a course on "how to be successful as a creator or digital nomad". No different than a pyramid scheme.
We went to Machu Picchu last year and my wife and I renamed it the Incan Instagram Trail.  So many people tying up the very narrow path and had clearly come dressed for the occasion, which made them look not only selfish but also culturally appropriating assholes to the rest of us.
Got yelled at back in 2021 by a woman in heavy makeup, but otherwise decked out like she was about to go backpacking for a long weekend in Bryce Canyon for not wearing a mask outdoors as we were approaching the trail. There were only a few other groups there all spaced out far more than 6 feet. I ignored her and started on the trail with my boyfriend. When we stopped and turned around to take in the view, there she was at the trailhead, unmasked, having her partner take multple photos of her in different poses, and forcing the groups behind us to shimmy around them onto the switchbacks with no more than a few feet of space.

We stood there observing them as this continued for another couple minutes before they packed up and headed back to the parking lot. Instafluencers are delusional and I'd like to know what I need to have happen in my brain to think I could be a huge hypocrite and still be in the right.
A friend of mine who works in the tourism industry brought up a good counterpoint. These "influencer" tourists are there to take pictures of themselves in particular places or with particular backdrops. They tend to stay at fancier hotels and only go to specific hotspots, because those are the places where they want to take pictures of themselves. So they aren't actually taking up space in many of the areas those of us who like to explore are going to.
Boomers = Me Generation

Zoomers = Look at Me Generation

GenX = Who, me? Generation
And the worst part is they only seem to go to places that other Instagram losers visit. The good news is they are easy to avoid because of this.
You will probably want to avoid Bali then
That’s one issue with Thailand it’s chalk full of wannabe “instagram influencers” and tiktokers -  yikes don’t want to be anywhere near those ppl
this!  They are dressed inappropriately and take up a lot of space and get angry if you are in the shot.  They jack up the prices of cool spots because they spend for content and are generally there not to appreciate the culture.
I find this shit so weird. I have a friend I’m low contact with right now for a couple reasons, but mostly because everything has to be photographed. I have literally told them I do not want to be photographed anymore or for our time out together to be photographed. They got really weird after that and are still constantly taking selfies or photos with their partner and his kid and putting it on IG. I really doubt this 10 year old wants to be plastered all over social media. Their partner does the same thing. 

I always feel super guilty if I take a photo or video in public and I do it very quickly and just keep it for myself to remember. Ex: my husband and I went to a show I was really really excited to see and I took a literal 5 second shitty instagram story of the marquee across the street because I didn’t want to bother anyone. I just don’t get it.
I'm a digital nomad because I had to sell my house and drift for a while. Life is expensive! So sorry if I annoy you! I'm just trying to make a living and keep a roof over my head. I move around a lot because the roof over my head generally involves a house sit or a hostel. Not complaining. Just chiming in.

And by the way, I'm reading these comments and it sounds like people think digital nomad is the same as social media influencer or blogger. They are not the same thing.
It was hilarious and weird at the same time in Istanbul seeing in the same place covered up women and then this chick with a miniskirt or dress millimeters from the kitty fun zone getting a full blown influencer photo shoot done
i think those are the ones that annoy me the most because they just get in my way, trying to enjoy life. fuck off with your photoshoot in my cafe, i'm just trying to drink coffee.
Did the tech travelers you meet introduce themselves as digital nomads? Or did they just say they work remotely and travel around? It's the label that I find makes the difference (obvious exceptions).
I hate when they use drones. Drones upset me in nature.
id say those people are still discovering themselves, if they ever will
the ones who vote for soda tax
what is a digital nomad?
Do you work illegally with just a tourist visa or did you apply for a digital nomad visa? Most of the digital nomads I've met abroad worked illegally while traveling on a tourist visa.
After traveling for a 2+ years I agree that it gets a bit embarrassing to talk about (unless I meet someone else thats been traveling for years then I geek out).

I always just say how long I’ve been in that country - ‘oh, I’ve been in Thailand about a month now :)’
Yeah, the only time I would ever use it is if I were living and working in a country on a digital nomad visa. For example, “I’ve been here almost a year on their digital nomad visa. How long are you staying?”
I don't find it embarrassing to discuss these things at all. Just don't be insufferable about it. If someone asks me how long I'm traveling I say I travel permanently now. If they think it's cool, cool. If they don't, also cool, I'm obviously not doing it for them.

And I've kind of gotten over my hate for the term DN tbh. 10 years ago I heard it and I wanted to be one. Then like 5 years ago it got overused and wasn't cool anymore, I stopped using it. Now, eh, whatever. If someone wants to call me that, go for it. I don't usually use it to describe myself, but if I thought it would be the fastest way to communicate to somebody about what I do, I would. Idc. Just don't be a douche and you'll be fine.
Yeah honestly. Backpackers are just long term tourists who happen to use a certain kind of luggage.

And yes, when I went to Southeast Asia there was lots of types who saw their big vacation as some sort of spiritual journey or something they *have* to do.
I worked as a “digital nomad”. The nice thing about it is that you get to step away from tourism a bit. I’ve always wondered what it is like to live in the UK and Australia. Being a digital nomad let me pick a town, get an apartment and car, and join local clubs & sports in both countries.
[deleted]
The subreddit has a large gradient from what are more at home remote workers (that travel twice a year for a few weeks) to expats (that rotate between 2-3 countries in a year). 

Comparing the subreddit to some expat groups there's a similar toxicity. Granted the Dunning Kruger effect makes the newer ones louder (guilty). The newer ones are also excited and still living like they did when traveling fast so are most likely to meet regular travelers.

Having sought out nomads I've found we're a reclusive lot that come out on very special occasions. Which ones did you come across?
/r/digitalnomad has a shocking tolerance for racist comments.

I saw a comment the other day that said "it pains me to say this, but FUCK COLOMBIA AND ALL COLOMBIANS" with dozens of upvotes.
lord… “coaching” is a trend i can’t wait to see die
Dating coaches, life coaches. Really. What makes people experts in these things? Do they have degrees in life or dating or something?
That's nomad-speak for "unemployed."  Like how in NYC you say "consulting."
Did you ever hear someone say "I'm a traveller not a tourist" ? How old were they ? Where ? I'm genuinely curious.

 Same for begpackers I've never seen any. I know they exists from those few pics on the internet but I feel like there's 20 total in the world but I might be wrong then.
I need a private room to work 90% of the time
Traveling full time can be lonely and being locked in a room alone for the whole work day can be depressing. Also working on common areas helps you meet people. I’m not a full time traveler and I understand there are some annoying people but this comment and discussion seem harsh. People can’t work in common areas? Call themselves digital nomads? Y’all are just mad for no reason atp
fly ask connect history compare pie unite mindless cautious command

 *This post was mass deleted and anonymized with [Redact](https://redact.dev/home)*
I never have and never would stay in a hostel. Sounds like the worst place for anyone serious about their professional life.
Did she talk about being a digital nomad specifically? Or did she just say she's working remotely from Merida and/or working remotely while traveling Mexico? 

Because that's where I see the difference. It's those who label themselves digital nomads.
Same kind of deal as disclaimers such as "No offense, but..." or "I'm not racist, but...", which are usually followed by something that is, in fact, offensive or racist.
>"authentic" experiences

Don't forget "live like a local" and "feel the place".
To me backpackers are longer term travelers intending to see many locations over the course of their trip, whereas tourists are more people going on a brief holiday to one or two places during a school break or with their work vacation time.

Both are technically tourists, but backpacker does conjure up a more specific image in my mind.
>And what, in your mind, is the difference between "backpackers" and "tourists?"  Let me guess, "backpackers" are more interested in "authentic" experiences, right?

the difference is whether the luggage fits in a backpack or not
💀
I interpreted it as 
Backpacker - extended trip, usually lower budget. Tourist - shorter trip, usually higher budget. 

Not saying that’s right, just my 2 cents
Wait are you implying there's not a difference between doing an all inclusive resort in Cancun vs a homestay in Oaxaca?

Idk why this subreddit is so bitter about that. As long as everyone is respectful, there's nothing wrong with how you travel. 

But to insinuate cultural emersion is the same across the board is just factually incorrect. Certain forms of travel are better for certain experiences than others and in some places even morally better.

If you've ever have experience traveling you can tell who's who. I've met people ranging from bikepackers to sex tourists to anthropologists. Differentiating them is not difficult.
Lol my thoughts exactly
Backpackers IMO yes are interested in things most tourists aren’t. Like an excursion or a weird small town or something where there’s only hostels but no resorts. There’s definitely a difference. Some people have no desire what so ever to see any of the other places Mexico has to offer. If it’s not Tulum, Cabo or Cancun and a 5 star resort that is most definitely a tourist and they’d be the first ones to tell yes they are a tourist.
dude you are all over this post denying the gentrifying effect of digital nomads but I am glad you feel morally superior!
This
I mean, why would someone do stuff alone when they're on a couple's vacation? Most people enjoy being aroung their partner for a longer amount of time than everyday life allows.
You’re presuming a lot about OPs experiences being shallow. Thats a snap judgment inofitself. I’ve had similar experiences and found the most self-absorbed people to be the digital nomad google tech types. Just an observation. You don’t need to know someone for decades and their life-story to form an opinion based on your interactions. 
This is an interesting perspective. One of the reasons I like solotravel is freedom and time to see, feel and experienece. 

While digital Nomad lifestyle can give an opportunity to spend longer time travelling it can also partially steal the magic which we have when we travel without worrying about job.
I like this perspective. Dated a French remote worker for a little bit and stayed with her at the wrong time. Busy schedule Mon to Fri works 8-10 hrs a day. The digital nomad is definitely not for me either. Stick to traveling and go back to the States and work and refuel.
So then it's only "ethical" to go on vacation to expensive countries?  Should there maybe be a chart someplace where you can look up your income level and be like, "Oh crap, I'm making over $90K a year now.  Wish I hadn't gotten that raise back in January!  Guess Thailand's out.  Sorry honey, looks like it's Sweden for us this year!"
Such are pretty much all forms of tourism...
IMO it seems like most prefer to just stay in over priced hostels and stroke each others ego so at least in those cases it’s concentrated to the confines of the hostel
Digital Gentrifiers
This is such a good point.
Yeah I agree that that is a "guys on a subreddit" problem and not necessarily a digital nomad one 😆
I want to frame this comment. That sub is the most annoying one ever.
Same. I feel like I'm basically watching their travel vlog when I have conversations with them.
literally this!  im someone who works remote and technically can live wherever but it’s just an aspect… i was shocked at how many people i met that were still of the mindset “my job is my whole life/single personality trait”…
5. Retired boomer european tourists
No yeah, it is famously known that you have to be fluent in every language or you are not appreciating the culture enough! 

If other people having fun in ways that aren't fun to you and you cannot understand that people are different, you have a lot of growing up to do.
I hate the party hostels that make it an American college experience. It's so stupid like the point of all those people coming out to travel is to.... Stay with the same type of people they know at home? It's like you could have gone an drank and fucked and partied back in your home country?? What's the point of doing it in an overpriced hostel? You get to do it with Australians?? So dumb.
Heard Mexico City isn’t what it used to be
Great find lol
These two terms have different meaning. Not saying that what you say is not true, some might avoid labeling themselves in some way.
> I'm a nomad

>then I go home

I don't think you know what the word nomad means.
Its a tendency we’ve observed. We are not saying every single selfstyled digital nomad is a self-absorbed vain person.

Ability to travel in exotic locales innately carries some prestige in society. This inevitably attracts some people for superficial reasons, especially when you add weak foreign currencies to the mix
You do realize that "nomad" means "one whose lifestyle involves moving around," right?  You're not talking about nomads.  You're talking about retirees.
That’s the difference I think. When you have no personality so that thing becomes your personality. I met some and you wouldn’t know it because they decided to do their work first and didn’t talk about it unless you asked “what do you do for work” 

But there’s a correlation as well, the digital nomads I met that are easy chill regular people are usually in their early to mid 30s more specifically most being 34+ 

The cringy insufferable ones I’ve encountered are almost always in their 20s.

And yes I’ve dated a girl from NYC. She was one of the most sheltered people I’ve ever met. If I wanted to go here it looked creepy but if some dumb basic influencer tagged some exotic hidden gem get away in an instagram story that was the place I wanted to go suddenly it was worth visiting
Again, a "nomad" is one who moves around.  People who refer to themselves as "expats" are people who've emigrated.
literally when will meme tier people learn the difference between expats and immigrants?

immigrants are moving somewhere permanently to make a new life somewhere 

expats are on a limited work contract or related to someone on a work contract, they are there for a fixed period and have 0 intention of becoming a permanent citizen and will return home after the contract is done. these are totally different things
What?? Really?
The irony.  🍿
Those people are trying to get sponsorships, I bet. 

Lol a couple years ago I took time off work to do the Camino de Santiago. One day I was passing by a fairly well known monument and stopped for a minute. This car pulled up maybe 50 yards behind me and a couple got out and started yelling at me to come back. I thought they needed help or something so I went back to talk to them... And they asked if I could take a picture of them. 

I was like LOL you yelled at me to walk back for THAT?!, but sure, whatever. 

They're like cool, just a minute... And went into the trunk of the car, put on hiking gear (a coat, hat, backpack). They asked to borrow my hiking poles. I see what's going on here and it's so stupid that I'm just going to do it but laugh about it the entire time, you absolute idiots.

So they take my hiking poles and have me take pictures, and then videos of them walking past me, putting on this big show of struggling up the hill (all 12 feet of it that they walked), looking around in wonder at the view, celebrating, trying to look exhausted, another view of them walking by super determined, etc.

Then they took everything off and got back in the car and drove off. 

So obviously these idiots were making content to pretend they did the hike just for the social media.... Which is SO weird to me, like... Why put all the effort in to make fake content to pretend you did something that you clearly have no interest in actually doing? Just so people will think you did it? I.... don't understand.
That’s a particularly irritating and self-absorbed form of “influencer,” the folks who just want to show off “luxury” tourist accommodations. Just makes it even more sad if they aren’t even genuinely staying in those places, but I also just hate the whole idea that travel is only “worth it” if it’s luxurious and high-budget.
While I was staying on a Greek island, I saw my hotel neighbor pop up on my tiktok fyp doing a video of how she was staying in five star hotel. We were in fact not staying in a five star hotel. It was a hostel like hotel and the cheapest accommodation on the island. The hotel in question was a block away that she had snuck into when a cleaning lady let her in. I saw her on two other islands during my island hopping trip where she continued posting fake content.
A few years ago there was an "I" who actually posted photos of her in front of travel posters pretending she was on a plane or in a villa.  She was caught out and had to admit it .
That's hustling.
Reminds me of being on a hike and this young couple blocked half of us from walking over a bridge because the guy had to get the ultimate shot of his girl, with her posing but standing up and sitting on the bridge. Finally, I got tired and just step around them as they cursed at me. 

Like really folks read the room and your instagram pics.
I was just in Malaysia watching a guy spontaneously run into the sea ten times. It looked an empty kind of existence and his smile ended at the end of every take.
These types of people are insufferable everywhere, the entitlement level is just criminal
I bet if you asked any one of those people after their pics were done WHAT exactly they're standing in front of, they'd have no idea.
Yes I enjoy walking through and interrupting their photo shoots.
I hate this shit. Just eat your fucking food. Social media has turned everyone into a food and travel blogger. NOT EVERYTHING NEEDS TO BE POSTED ONLINE..
>Social media is probably this lifetime's worst creation.

Massively agree. Not just people's attitudes in general with wanting everything they do to be seen and liked, but also the way those apps and their users are manipulated with algorithms to show them what they engage with and put people in massive echo chambers, and I am not aiming this at the right wing either, its everyone, we've lost the ability to find common ground because everything is just such a divisive binary choice, if you don't think x then you are y and I hate you, that sort of thing.
You have to make it the restaurant's problem.  Complain to the waiter that it's spoiling your enjoyment of the meal and get them to ask them to stop.  Same if someone's being annoying on a flight - complain to the flight attendant, not directly to the passenger.
Isn’t Reddit a form of social media ?
It's for sure ruined a lot of nice places. Now they're overrun with people trying to get photos, while tramping all over where they shouldn't be.
My bf is 100% the type to speak up and say something. I was super embarrassed at first, but I learned to love it. He's the guy who will say what everyone was already thinking. I really appreciate it because I deal with less rude behavior now that he's around.
Man i was playing billiard a few weeks ago and on another table there was one 16 year old girl who just kept taking pictures of herself. Over the course of 2 hours she probably took 300 pictures of herself. 
And I don't get it. Either you are patheticically insecure or you are a narcissist but that's not normal. Imagine spending that amount of effort on taking pictures of yourself.

Maybe she is a victim of addictive algorithms, but I tend to disagree there is a degree of self-responsibility

Social media has ruined us and its getting worse with every new social media app

Bereal is worse than tiktok which is worse than instagram which is worse than facebook which is worse than myspace
places need to ban that shit for the sake of their real customers

yeah sorry i just want to enjoy my meal without flash photography going off 50x/minute a foot from my face

just trying to have a pizza here, not watch the nuclear bomb tests
I went to a new Korean place today and I think I was the only person alone in the restaurant, but at least I didn't do this annoying shit and now I don't feel embarrassed at all, thanks
That crossed the line. Put them in their place. Think about it, you let that pass, more will come.
Idk most of the time if you just focus on what you are doing, it shouldn't bother you. Maybe you were not enjoying yourself.
My only happiness is visually laughing at their ridiculous pictures of them "communing with nature" and acting all chill, when they had to take 20 pictures just to get that shot. Girl please-this isn't Eat, Pray, Love.
I was at the Hong Kong Walk of Fame or whatever it's called last month. Just standing by the water taking in the view not bothering anyone at all when I was shoved(!) by two Instagram girls because I had somehow gotten in the way of their little photoshoot. No excuse me, no sorry can you move, nothing, just *shoved*. The gloves are off now from now on for all future encounters with this species.
It's sad because even if you *do* want to stand there and appreciate the Mona Lisa, you'll be shoved by the throngs of masses who just want a damn selfie with a teeny painting.
That is sad.
To be fair, the Mona Lisa is very underwhelming when you see it in person.
I saw this in Pompeii and Angkor Wat and several other places as well. 

It’s an in/out snap a selfie and nothing else. It’s so unfortunate they miss the entire cultural experience.
There were a few photos I saw of the Mona Lisa taken by a photographer who was focusing primarily on the sea of people with their phones out.
Similar thing happened to me (a few years ago) at a London (Hyde park) Pavarotti concert - great seats (3-4 rows from the front) and the majority of people around us phone videoing, crap! the man is right there!
Are they mostly female?
Yes, the people who think getting views on instagram is going to fund their lives are dreaming.
These r the funniest ones…its borderline delusional/mental illness.
Gen x- most demographically forgotten generation ever. But my Peeps!
dressed inappropriately? are you from the 1950s dude?
I’m a tech worker and I work remotely sometimes. I honestly think part of the issue is that there’s a tech bubble going on and too many people are making too much money doing relatively easy work 

And I say this as somewhat profiting from the tech bubble, so this isn’t cope. I just think this current era (complete with insufferable digital nomads) will be scaled back a bit in the future as the ZIRP VC era ends 
I’m a virtual tech worker. Hate being called a digital nomad.
It bugs me that when you look at videos on Youtube and the like, so many of them are glossy drone footage. Yes, pretty, but that's not what I'll see from the ground if I visit there. And yes, being somewhere beautiful with a drone buzzing over your head is annoying as s\*\*\*.
basically just a remote worker before everyone was a remote worker
An individual whose work with digital technologies enables them to move around frequently.
Remote workers abusing their higher wages and gentrifying places in countries with lower salaries . They are trash basically.
Usually it’s people living off Daddy’s money on a permanent holiday with a shitty YouTube channel of clone content and 1200 followers.
Remote workers abusing their higher wages and gentrifying places in countries with lower salaries . They are trash basically.
There are countries that allow working remotely on visitor visa, as long the visitor is not working for a local employer.
Example include Canada, which allows remote working to foreign companies on visitor visa.
People in the digital nomad subreddit seem to routinely recommend breaking local work laws.
Well they are probably technically a tourist on vacation, but they are working for their company back home. I don’t see how that would break any laws
What do you do for a living?
i woukdn't even say it then lol

when people ask me what it's like i'm like "it's like being homeless ... but internationally"
I understand your experience differs, but excluding travel for work, travel for pleasure is 99.9% of travel.
Yep. I dated a new “digital nomad” (He really wasn’t. He lived off of his savings while trying to get clients). When we were at the airport, he pointed at tourist backpacks and said that you can tell which ones are digital nomads and which ones are backpackers. It was pretty embarrassing.
Perhaps oddly the ones I’ve met have all been “nomading” while road tripping through the US, I don’t think I’ve met any self-declared “nomads” while traveling abroad. Of the ones I’ve met in the US there was one who was really down to earth and lovely to talk to, one who just wanted to brag about being a nomad, and one who was sort of in-between (pleasant in person but a sort of oversharing, braggy, influencer wannabe presence on social media)
were you following me around at most of my digital nomad stops?

I need to come up with something where I coach people about energy and chakras and stuff like that
Dating coaches I get a little, but life coaches I don't, as most are like 25!
Well they never specifically said that to me but I've seen many of those types across social media who get offended at the thought of being a tourist and they think that their way of travelling is more authentic and special (even though they go to all the same spots as the tourists).

I spent over a year travelling around Asia and met all types of people on their travels, the majority are fine but some of the younger crowd on their gap years (18-21) seemed to have this arrogance about them thinking that they know better even though they were fairly new to travel.

It's mainly in South East Asia you can find these types. But the worst I would say are the sex tourists of which there are plenty in the likes of Thailand and the Philippines.
That makes sense. But I’m referring to the people that get the private room and then go to the common area to work. Just seems silly to me is all. 

As well as the price some of these people pay, like an actual apartment can cost less and you’ll have an actual place and your own kitchen and everything. But it’s not appealing because there’s no common area for them to be some jet setting influencer.
I’m not mad
It’s funny because they could easily find an actual flat to rent that’d cost way less but that wouldn’t be anyone fun because then I don’t have anyone to work in front of. 

Can’t stand those cringey “this is where I live” videos and it’s just a hostel full of rich white kids in Costa Rica and there’s like a swing in the room for some reason. “This is where I work” lol you’re literally going out of your way to just sit in front of someone else, not talk and feel original
Hostels for most people are just a means to save money. If you’re going on a long trip it’s a great way to stretch out your savings. Some of the best laughs and nights I’ve had were in hostels. There’s party hostels and there’s quiet low key hostels. In my experience if you don’t do the research before hand you can find yourself in a party hostel which you intended to avoid and subsequently get very little sleep. 

I’ve been to some really fun ones that were run very well and some shitty sloppy ones. But if you have x amount of money and plan on being in the road for 6months to a year you’ll be hard pressed to find a cheaper Accomodation. 

But I understand where you’re coming from. They are not for everybody. They were relevant and fun to me in my 20s now I’m going to turn 36 very soon. I love space, my own kitchen and sleeping in and not hearing people fucking in a bunk bed in the same room as me. Now I rent proper rentals
Sorry, don't remember. Her rather cool way of life was at home for six months of the year, travel while working remotely for six months.
It honestly reminds me of something that would get posted in r/digitalnomad lol
I get your point but I'm not sure it's quite the same. Generalisation is a typical starting point for a worthwhile conversation imo
Where do you meet those people ? Traveled for years and never heard anyone brag about their ways or act arrogant. Maybe I don't mind people say stuff like they want to "feel the place" and don't notice it. If someone mentions that they would rather buy groceries and cook than going to a fancy restaurant I don't get the problem.  


I've met a few who only had in mind to feed their blog or youtube channels and I didn't like hanging with them, but never any actual smug digital nomad or Real Traveler™.
Same, whilst backpacking (a year of travel) I would meet people just holidaying in that city or country for a short time, hence tourists. Definitely different vibes from those two groups. Often very different people tbh
Sounds like a good explanation to me. Some people get so hung up on labels. Both the ones applied to others or ones used to describe themselves. Agree that they’re important. Just have to have common understanding of what terms, definitions, words, concepts, ideas mean+stand for. Devil is in the details. Especially with regards to language.
My take as well. And “Digital Nomad”=remote worker. Overseas. Probably long term. More likely young, childless. No preconceived notions regarding their personality, lifestyle, views, or types of travel experiences. But haven’t met any yet or gone on any long term “backpacker” type travels myself.
That's still tourism!
Bro come on, it’s the same attitude why the nomads are being grilled here.
Plenty backpackers never left the Banana pancake trail when I went round SEA. Backpackers are no different from tourists, going to some tiny town and living in a shack doesn't make you any more magical.
There really are not that many digital nomads out there digital nomading.  Outside of a few well-known hotspots, most of the foreigners you meet in a given town are either expats or legit immigrants.  And I say this as someone who's gone out of their way to visit many places that nomads allegedly frequent.  Even in "super hotspots" like Chiang Mai or Buenos Aires, the number of people I've met who are committed to working remotely and traveling year-round is vanishingly small.  Even among the people who are traveling while working remotely, many of them are just doing it for a like a couple months and then going home.

I'm not saying that tourism doesn't affect a town's economy.  And I'm not saying that foreigners going to another country and setting up shop doesn't affect the economy.  What I'm saying is the "digital nomad" lifestyle, while it has kind of a large cultural footprint, is actually not practiced by all that many people.  Certainly not enough to swing a whole economy in any city.

I've seen AirBNB distort the rental market in cities that attract almost no digital nomads — basically every city in the US is like this.  Most cities are gentrifying anyway, and this has little to do with "digital nomads."  And any town that already has a tourist industry is seeing their economy distorted by cheap airfares and other technologies that make travel easier (smart phones, google translate, google maps, credit cards).  But that's just from plain old-fashioned ordinary tourism.

My theory is the idea of a "digital nomad" took hold in the collective unconscious during COVID and while the crypto bubble was still in full gear.  But I didn't get into it until after that whole party was over, so it's possible that I missed the peak of the thing.  But from my own experience, rumors about the popularity of my lifestyle have been greatly exaggerated.
I appreciate your response, I’m answering the question posed by OP. I can see the validity in your response to my comment but still feel strongly about what I mentioned. I’m not making a snap judgment of the character of OP or the beliefs/values they hold. Rather I’m deducing what I can from the information provided by OP. I realize people make opinions based on single incidents of interactions, my point is you don’t know someone’s story/experiences and to judge them as insufferable based off one or a small amount of interactions just seems unfair
Absolutely - as someone who headed solo into the horizon carefree a few times in my 20s, it's a totally different vibe.
Yes, but it's also "unethical" to not go to poor places where most of their jobs are from tourism. /s


Some people's entire life is complaining about what other people so they can feel morally superior.
There is no ethical way to travel. 
But being a digital nomad is one of the worst one to me and i say this while many of my friends spend the winter months in south America while living in Canada the rest of the year. 

They can do it so they will do it. That’s it. If you wanna do it go ahead but I’m totally allowed to think you are exploiting the wealth inequalities our economic model is creating.
I can't even figure what group he's talking about.  I suppose that's the digital nomads, but imo the worse impact comes from high budget travelers who deregulate the most the local economy.
Yep it’s the « hard to swallow » pill for many people.
The main difference I see with digital nomads compared to tourists is that tourists are more likely to support hotels and other local businesses whereas digital nomads will typically rent Airbnb and other short term leases that don't benefit locals while working remote jobs that don't help the economy of the country their living in
Definitely true to an extent, but also there’s a lot less of that mentality on this subreddit, which seems to be mostly people who genuinely enjoy traveling.
They aren’t bad in comparison to chinese tourists
It’s disrespectful to the local culture though. A country and it’s people have 1000x more worth than another location for your “fun” party - if all people care about is drinking and fucking then just stay home and do it there.
I’ve also met good people from hostels. I think the main difference between a digital nomad and hostel crowd is the word you used, “fun.” I like having fun too, but I’m focused on integrating into the culture, working M-F, and language learning. Hostel thing is wayyy more fast paced and a completely different experience. Apples and oranges, almost.
Take it from Mexico City natives, my folks who immigrated to the US from there were taken back by how much the city changed in a positive since they left there. My siblings and I have traveled many times in the last two years and have decided to move back since it’s a place that has everything we ever want to do, happening at all times. In the US I have to travel to different cities to do all of the things that are part of my lifestyle, macabre tourism, art, food, culture, music, alternative subcultures… and it’s more affordable all of it in CDMX. Even my folks want to move back lol that said you can tell where the “nomads” lurk and create these bubbles that are filled with people on their laptops don’t even bother to speak the most basic Spanish to the wait staff.. but it’s still a magical place
>Ability to travel in exotic locales innately carries some prestige in society

Maybe 30 years ago. Now it just makes you another dime a dozen boring loser.
digital nomads OFTEN buy property abroad, not to mention the higher rent they are willing to pay is also bad for locals. just like airbnb's, hard pill to swallow, but it is true
That is truly depressing 
A guy named Bill Bryson yellow-blazed most of his ‘thru hike’ of athe AT simply to write a book.  People go through life as posers and some make bank.
Probably because camera equipment is heavy so they thought they'd fake it.
I agree. And most social media video’s be it travel related or not are all STAGED. Luxury tourist accommodation is one of those staged I guess the guy is too afraid to explain to travelers how to travel on a budget.
I'd wait maybe 15s before I walk into their shot. It's a public space, they can get fucked.
I was walking my dog on a trail by the beach this summer, I turn a corner onto the trail that leads down to the beach, and there is a girl in a bikini and a dude with huge camera. 

He tried to stop us going through. 

I asked to see his permit from the city parks department that allowed him to close the trail. "If you don't have one, fuck off"
I literally never wait. Like never. The times that someone walking through would ruin actual film is well beyond us. They can wait for the right moment rather than me waiting to go ahead with my day.
I had a Spanish lady yell at me for getting in her picture on Rainbow Mountain in Peru. It was on a steep slope on a narrow trail, in an area so high elevated that you're not supposed to stay at the summit for long periods.

She was being completely unreasonable, and also a moron.
I LIVE for stepping around them and ruining their shots. Take more than 30 seconds hogging a scenic view, I'm walking right through.
I get a rather mean pleasure from walking in front of instagram girls, standing in thigh high boots and fishnets in 5C weather during rush hour.
He is not “guy”. He is “insta husband”.
I’ve literally been saying the same thing for 20 years. I honestly thought Facebook would last  2 years at most and I never did set up an account. How pretentious-to think think everyone cares to see what you’re doing all day long, every damn day. Pfffft
People posting plates of food have gotta be the worst. It almost makes me barf.
different zealous long cows beneficial hungry mountainous distinct unique plants

 *This post was mass deleted and anonymized with [Redact](https://redact.dev/home)*
That is another harmful idea, yes.. that it is just the right-wing nuts who live in a manipulated bubble.
This is why 4chan/image boards rock. There is no karma and every post is anonymous.
yes.  and there are insufferable people here too LOL
Reddit is just the new message board/forum, which has existed since the beginning of the internet basically.
Fair, but it’s the best one for an open discussion and a forum. It’s not a ‘look at me’ platform. You don’t hear of nightmare redditors anywhere else but within Reddit itself
..ah, great diss!..
Don’t get me wrong I love finding new spots to eat, but I got fucking annoyed when these two tiny hole in the wall places in one neighborhood got put into a pretty popular food newsletter in my city because whenever that happens they get overrun by all these TikTok food blog people and it gets ruined because there are insane lines and just tons of people sitting there taking photos of their food.
dependent simplistic quarrelsome amusing water physical squeal unite one selective

 *This post was mass deleted and anonymized with [Redact](https://redact.dev/home)*
This. We were just about to depart on a flight once from Vietnam to Taiwan and it wasn't even half full, big plane. Anyway, there were 2 women literally shouting at each other in conversation, sitting right beside each other. I was with my gf a few rows back, but everyone must have heard these morons. I finally shouted at them to be quiet, and they shut right up. People around us looked at me and smiled, as did my gf. It was a perfect moment of satisfaction.
Social media is a fad. It constantly rotates every few years.
I remember seeing some Spanish tourists in Morocco throwing on turbans and doing all these highly staged photo shoots doing yoga poses on sand dunes. Just the most obnoxious, culturally fetishizing BS I’ve seen from tourists, and all in the name of manufacturing this entirely fake “content”
I know. The whole time i was waiting i was just wishing they would make two lines. One for those who want a selfie and one for those who actually want to look at the painting.
Yep. Happened to me at St Peter's basilica, trying to see Michelangelo's Pieta, here comes a big bunch of rude [insert nationality] tourists pushing all the way to take photos of the sculpture. Pretty much they shoved me away. I had to wait intil they moved on to the next photo spot...
This is exactly why I’m planning to skip Chitzen Itza for more obscure, of the beaten path, Mayan ruins on my Mexico trip. Would love to visit Angkor Watt and Egypt here eventually, but I know the throngs of people taking selfies for instagram are just going to take me out of the immersion of being at these important historical and cultural sites. Hard to imagine yourself back in ancient times while surrounded by modern technology and social media.
I mean there’s definitely a lot of people who make a very nice living off Instagram.

Most are not.
Not always. Kuang Si Falls in Laos for instance - a very respected site among locals, but masses of Instagram models parading around in barely-there bikinis. The locals don't like it, but don't say anything because they need the income. There's a time and a place. Pool at a fancy resort? Yes. Walking down the street in somewhere like Indonesia or Malaysia? No (and that goes for guys, too).
Gotta respect the culture of where you’re visiting
Some of the locals often have and feel offended about it. Especially when visiting places of worship.
lame.  I saw a girl in heels in a hiking path walking so slow that the crowd was bunched up behind her so she can get a photo .
Welcome to the euphemistic treadmill
Oh hi virtual tech worker. I am too, a digitalized nomadic traveler of the seven seas!

Aloha from Hawaii 🌺 #tag for likes
„nomad“ implies no fixed home, so it’s not really the same. You can work remote will living in your flat in a different city, but nomads tend to live in hostels/airBnBs, often in cheap countries in SEA and LATAM, and travel around frequently
No not true. A digital nomad is a remote worker that travels frequently and changes working location every so often. Many remote workers don't travel and simply work remote in their same city.
Heh, I remember an older comment on Reddit where someone berated digital nomads: "You're an expat who works remotely, get over yourself."
Salt
rude i have at least 1400 followers
The YouTuber kind of nomad is very rare but more visible on social media. I’ve only personally met one but even he did marketing work for some clients.
almost all digital nomads i’ve met have worked to finance their lifestyle, often stuff like web development, design, amazon marketing, etc.

it’s where the „digital“ part comes into play
And in this subreddit there is Rule #8
If you read the rules of a tourist visa, you are strictly forbidden from doing work while visiting as a tourist - even on a computer. It doesn't matter if your company is based outside the country. 

This is why many countries created Digital Nomad visas, so people could do remote work while traveling.
Yeah it's one of those technicality things. When companies send workers abroad on business trips, they usually get them some kind of business visa - because the person is working, even if the company paying them might not be in that country. A tourist visa is technically "for tourism" ie theoretically you shouldn't be doing any work for any company even one in a different country. Depending on country's tax laws and treaties, any income you make while living somewhere might be technically taxable. But, of course, there are plenty of people who might briefly check their work email while on vacation without thinking about it, and I doubt they would get dinged by immigration for that. But digital nomads are doing a bit more than random email checks and again, depending on a country's tax laws a person living and using a country's infrastructure and services might - technically - owe that country tax on their income even if it was made abroad.
That's funny because I have a friend that hops around for a month with only a 10L. I travel with a 40L and a beach bag. I have another friend that travels with two check-in 1615 Pelican Air cases.

One fairly accurate way to get a sense how long someone's been nomading is whether they mention it. After awhile it becomes part of regular life, like telling someone what degree you graduated with or how long you've owned your home. It feels awkward to bring up.
Have yet to meet the America bound ones! Interesting
I’ll be your first investor. Let’s do this.
Some people don't like being alone. I'm not one of them, but I know they exist. I def prefer my own private kitchen and space, but a lot of people would get lonely living the life i live
I don’t work remotely but I do like working around other people, even if I’m working by myself around other people.

Just makes it feel easier to be productive.
mysterious gray jeans pause quack special tub mindless plants flag

 *This post was mass deleted and anonymized with [Redact](https://redact.dev/home)*
"LOOK AT THE SIZE OF MY SPREADSHEET"
You've definitely just listed all the fun and laughs you've had. Which is not what I would have ever seeked out as a working professional. That's not important for me at all while traveling and working. When I started doing this 10 years ago I treated working remotely as my normal job which required a quiet and professional space. Once I closed the lid of my laptop then I socialized. It was always important for me to keep those two things distinctly separate. I get some people need to be social above all else, I've just always had an aversion to hostels. And if I didn't have the money for "proper" accommodations it meant I didn't have my finances in order to this "right," by my standards at least.
Sounds like the life if you can’t organize your life.
The tourism industry yes, there isn’t a backpacking industry. That falls under tourism.
I’m only saying IMO that to me there is a difference between a backpacker and a tourist. I am not implying one is more favorable than the other.
I understand the sentiment, but I feel this is the same style of flimsy 'elitist' argument as there's no difference between an expat and an immigrant.

These terms aren't just elitist, they're to describe a certain group or subset.

Backpackers are a specific subset of tourists.  The shift from carrying around luggage trunks and staying in hotels to huffing it with just a backpack was fairly divergent and gave route to a different style and path of traveling.

I'd agree the terms backpacker and expat have grown to have a fair bit of negative and lame connotation roped in, like say, calling someone a communist in the US has, but that doesn't take away from the fact that these terms do have unique definitions and did originate to describe something different
Yea I’m that regard yes, but your not going to find a tourist the kind I’m referring to in the banana pancake trail. I’m not saying it makes you are anyone more magical lol. Classic Reddit. 

I’ve had my hostel phase, met guys that only left to buy coke from taxi drivers and spent rest of their trip doing blow and drinking in the hostel. The difference is the tourist did the same thing but in a hotel room in a different part of town and probably has some sex tourism sprinkled in there somewhere. 

I’m only saying there still is a difference between the two. A backpacker might be on the road for months at a time, a tourist goes somewhere for a few days and doesn’t leave the resort, goes back home to their job, etc.
They are making a generalization about a group being insufferable in general, based on many repeated interactions with that group. They are not saying every single individual member of the group is insufferable to the core. Like saying “tiktok influencers are insufferable”. Its a common sentiment. Doubtful many people with this sentiment have had deep long personal relationships with many tiktok influencers. Instead, they have formed this opinion of tiktok influencers based on repeated interactions across a variety of people and situations. You don’t need to learn multiple tiktoker life stories to hold this opinion. Nothing “unfair” about it

And you’re presuming its based on one/few interactions when more likely theyve had dozens of interactions with digital nomads as a whole
Yeah, for example, Thailand has been going out of their way to offer visa-free travel to more and more countries, because their tourism economy still hasn't rebounded from COVID and merchants are still suffering.
Again, this line of thinking doesn't really work.  Okay, so let's say I never travel again.  Gotta live somewhere.  So where do I live?  When choosing a neighborhood, do I need to look at a census, find out what the average income is, and avoid any neighborhood where people make a certain number of standard deviations less than me?  Do I need to avoid some cities entirely because they're in depressed regions of the country?  Should I avoid eating at certain restaurants because they aren't expensive enough?  Where does it stop?
At least digital nomads put no pressure on their home countries housing market lol
What if the AirBnB is owned by a local?

I have no dog in the fight I’m just curious where the line is.
Let's assume "other local businesses" are supported equally by those different groups. Arguably if you stay longer at a touristic place you are more likely to actually go to e.g. local restaurants rather than the touristy ones most other tourists frequent.


So even if we ignore that I don't see how towns full of backpacker hostels (that often don't employ locals) or huge resort areas (that get build rather than e.g. other businesses or housing) are much better. Fact is a lot of countries rely on tourism. Spending money does help the local economy. I don't think there is a big difference between any of these groups.
Part of it may be due to moderation standards. Solotravel as a subreddit has long had rules against posting about sex tourism, and weird pickup artist/incel comments get deleted here. I don't know what the subreddit rules are in the digital nomad subreddit but I've seen comments there that would be deleted and ban-worthy here. Proactively removing problematic comments might go a long way in preventing the buildup of gross attitudes in a subreddit. But it's also possible that the people who call themselves "digital nomads" might have a higher percentage of weird predatory sexpats/sex tourists compared to the online travel "community" overall.
That's why they're #5. Specifically retired boomer french tourists. I just did a trip in SEA and when the Chinese tourists weren't annoying the hell out of me the retired french boomers filled the void.
literally anything is better than chinese tourists lol, that's like the end boss of annoying people abroad
So you're basically an American with a current higher standard of living due to where you grew up and youre moving to Mexico city but you're not a colonizer too?  Make it make sense.
So why is everyone constantly posting travel pics on social media? Sharing them with friends? Are they all boring losers?
I think it's kind of a sliding scale.  If someone buys an apartment in some other country and lives in it for some of the year and spends the rest of the year traveling, I don't really see a problem with that.  

But someone who buys an apartment in a foreign city at a low price and then rents it out at a higher price — at that point, I don't really care whether they're a nomad or not.  At that point, that person has become an international real estate investor, and yes, I pretty much hate those people.  I'd hate them if they were a Russian oligarch buying a condo in Manhattan, a rich Chinese family buying a condo in Vancouver, or yes, an American computer programmer buying a condo in Thailand.  They all suck.  Especially if they own multiple properties.

But again, sliding scale.
His book was at least honest about how disastrously wrong his hiking went
That book is perfect though.

And it seemed very honest about all the dumb shit they did. I think they barely made it like a month.
This was a great novel! Highly recommend to anyone who appreciate literature!
His stories are a joy to read and I am laughing out loud most of the time.
I never liked that snarky negative dude - thanks for giving me some more ammo!
Please explain the term "yellow-blaze". First time I run across it.
Yeah having to take pictures on a phone is really the deal breaker here.

They had me film on a phone anyways
This, I give them a short moment to take the photo and then walk.
I usually wait a moment or two but if they don't get their sad little acts together in this time, I start audibly counting down from 6 like I would with a child. I do it in a mommy voice, too. If they don't make it before I hit zero, I walk.
What was their reaction when you asked for permit?
I waited before cameras on phones were ubiquitous. I live in London, and waiting for people to take a photo would result in me getting nowhere at all. It's nice you want to take pictures but if you try and block the pavement in going through you.
That's funny. I kinda did the same...thought I'd get around to getting A fB account- never did. Same with IG or any social media at all. I am a private person. I'm just not that interested in the fabulous (or made up) lives of others. I really don't feel my life is worse off for not joining the cult.
You thought Facebook wouldn’t last even after the success of MySpace prior to it?
I absolutely hate the influencer scene but I like taking pictures of my food, especially abroad. I like to show my friends what new/interesting dishes I’ve tried. But obviously after snapping one pic I’m gonna start chowing down
I second this. Deleted my social media to prep for an exam without distractions….. never went back. My mental health MASSIVELY improved when I wasn’t constantly comparing myself to others. The only pictures I ever take now are just for myself to have the memory. No posing for the perfect shot, no editing the photo… a quick snap & back to enjoying the moment fully without digital distractions.
Man I’m just as guilty of having my phone or iPad in my hand at all times, but I was in a few different rehabs that lasted for 1 week to over a month, oh and even jail for a few weeks. My point is I was forced to go without my phone or anything related. Still had tv but it was kind of nice going without them, even if it was not by choice
Plus unless I'm wrong, are there things like Reddit "influencers"?

I know people get Karma and all that but even in the subreddits where I'm pretty active, I don't pay attention to people's usernames so it doesn't really feel like social media. I'm responding to you (only\_positive90) but even if I read or respond to another comment from you later there's about 0% chance I ever pay attention enough to realize it's the same person.
well, to be fair, the media was pretty worked up about r/wallstreetbets for a minute there, so redditors did get their brief 15 minutes of infamy...still not as shameless or obnoxious as other social media platforms though...and the sole redditor came off as one of the smartest and least corrupt people speaking in the congressional hearing so ....definitely better
Fair enough!
Social media is not a fad. It's been here for almost two decades and it's only getting more popular.
Ive seen some tourists in africa walking around in full explorer fit. Wtf dude you look like some 18 century colonial dickhead. I was surprised the locals were still so friendly
I do wonder if these people have a long term plan for when they're not physically attractive anymore or for when the algorithm randomly stops favouring them. I mean, fadt forward 20 years and i think there are going to be a lot of middle aged ex influencers whose only point on their CV is 'looking hot and taking photos'
practically dozens.  I find that people over represent their happiness on social media.  I doubt many of them are getting by with the freedom that they lead other people believe they have.
I very much doubt there are that many “insta models” going to laos though? 

I disagree with disrespecting local culture, but it’s always misogyny at the root of many of these comments that bothers me. 
I disagree with disrespecting local culture, but it’s always misogyny at the root of many of these comments that bothers me. 
you’re just making shit up now. places of worship always have cover ups available to buy and even the most “inappropriately dressed” people cover up 
expat/immigrant     tomato/tomato
i mean that's not really what a nomad is but i agree some people need to get over themselves
That feels like a weird comment that’s just being abrasive for no reason. Digital nomad is already a self explanatory name
"immigrant"
Cope
It’s pretty difficult to define though. Working all day and having zoom calls is technically the same as spending 5 minutes responding to work email. Tourism industry would die if countries started kicking out every person who did the latter.
You are forbidden from taking a job in the country you are visiting. You can’t take a job away from a local. Digital nomads don’t do that. In fact they bring money into the local economy that it wouldn’t otherwise get.
Yes. I found his comment absurd since he was dating me. And I only have a 40L backpack. I’ve been “nomading” for 5 years.
These were all US citizens living a "nomadic" lifestyle while traveling domestically. Probably made the remote work easier due to less dramatic time zone differences, and also it meant avoiding the often rather complicated and sometimes straight-up illegal visa issues that international "nomads" deal with.
I’m aware, we definitely would get along. I LOVE being alone. I understand not wanting to be alone but to me the difference is when the thing becomes your personality and identity and I feel that’s the case for at least half the digital nomads I have come across. 

It becomes a competition of “what do you do, where do you stay when you’re in this city, have you been here yet, my company this, my company that, oh you stay there? I stay in Selina’s when I’m in that city” etc.

Those conversations and interactions can not be had in a setting when they are living alone. Talking about themselves is that important where they rather pay more to stay in an overpriced hostel than rent an apartment, only go to bars/restaurants that were recommended by the hostel or another digital nomads than make some local friends and actually learn something about the city or town they are in. 

They can’t do those things renting a flat, saving money and not having a common area with a swing in the middle of it to work on their laptops infront of each other drinking an overpriced coffee they bought from the hostel restaurant because they’re too intimidated to walk a few blocks and practice ordering a coffee in a different language
And those ribbons that hang from the ceiling that basic yoga girls level up to and swing from to upgrade their personality
Hostel WiFi is also awful half the time, so if I were to try to “seriously” work while abroad I’d want somewhere with reliable wifi. Maybe it’s more feasible for people who don’t need a solid WiFi connection, idk
Yea for me it was a phase. When in tone kind of thing but also saved a lot of money for my travels. You couldn’t pay me to stay in a hostel today. I also wasn’t working. Just backpacking South America. These days I find a nice apartment, rent it out and chill out for a few months.
I get what your saying, and I agree backpackers are a subset of tourist.

What I don't agree with is the flex some backpackers feel they get because they did something different and it makes them somehow more than just a tourist basically. 

Like when do you become a backpacker, is it whn you go off the standard backapcker trails. When you learn some langauge, when you change locations? Is it thge time away, how long? I've seen plenty backpackers flexing on others because they didn't have some amazing experince, or hadnt been somewhere. It's that sort I'll point out your just a tourist as well.
A tourist is someone who travels for pleasure. Any backapcker falls under that defition. A tourist also isnt necessarily there for sex, backpackers are not necessarily virtous.
🙄 
In all honesty I’m not sure what you’re arguing anymore. I understand generalizations, stereotypes, etc. exist and how they come to be. My point is I don’t think we should let these guide how we feel about and judge others. There are plenty examples of how stereotypes harm and divide people. If we took more time getting to know others rather than judging off of surface level identities and/or behaviors we’d all be a bit kinder.
The Airbnb issues have more to do with the larger impacts of the app itself, taking up space that would otherwise be accessible to locals, etc
It could definitely be both of those. There’s a lot of sex tourism defenders there.
I can confirm. They are so arrogant too. 
Maybe they are experiencing a culture shock.
I’m Mexican born, my parents were born in Mexico, my sister and mom born in Mexico City. Going back to my home country is the opposite of colonizing you idiot. I’m literally a Mexican citizen 🤦‍♂️
I think we need more disastrously honest bits of writing, blogging, vlogging,and social media postings. It keeps it real!
Hitchhiking to skip sections of trail.  Yellow lines on road
It was a quick exchange months ago, so I can't quote him, but I'd describe it as "irritated waffling" He said some stuff about not needing one, public land etc. 

I countered with it being public land is why he needs a permit to stop me.
🤯
Think of how many family photobooks you’re in ♥️
Reddit is still more on the anonymous side, kinda like 4chan. Reddit admin is trying to change that though. The thing with social media like Instagram and Twitter is that it's all about the individual. You post your brainfarts, pictures you make of yourself on there, on Youtube you make Videos etc. and you collect followers or on YouTube subscribers. That number is highlighted on your profile and is a dopamine rush when it gets higher. On reddit? Barely anyone cares about the person behind the comment or post.
I’m sure some do and some don’t. It happens in every industry that relies on age—athletes, models, etc.
Well of course people overrepresent happiness on their social lol. But it doesn’t mean you can’t make a living wage off it.
I followed several travel couples on Youtube during the pandemic.  Great people, great energy, great insights that shaped some of my own travels.

2024 and they are all broken up (generally amicably save for one couple that transferred a lot of drama to their own channels).  

One of each partner clearly wanted out of the travel blogging lifestyle and the other is clearly still finding themself in it.  

It isn't all puppies and unicorns I learned.
Are you implying that tourists never dress in ways that are insensitive to local social norms? It’s not something I try to dwell on because tbh it feels a bit inappropriate to get too fussy about how other people dress, but at the same time, occasionally I do see tourists wearing stuff in obviously conservative countries and I’m just like, “did you do literally any research at all before showing up here…?”
Maybe some places.  I've seen recent pics of temples in South East Asia with a summary of unacceptable garments (skimpy coverage, bad language, religious images, etc.) posted outside the building.  It's on visitors to show up dressed to go inside.  There could be some enterprising vendors outside with cover ups, but maybe not.  I heard there were lots when visiting St. Peter's, but maybe I wasn't in the right places myself to see them.
Except there's an actual meaningful distinction here. Nomad implies something different to 'remote worker', which is obvious when you think about it for more than half a second.
Oh yeah? Then how would you describe yourself?
Certainly has an air of pretentiousness to it though
Digital Nomads actually negatively impact foreign economies. They drive up hotel, hostel and apartment prices, and locals don't like it. It's common now to see protests against remote workers. I've seen it in Mexico City, Lisbon and Barcelona. 

Personally, I've seen hostel prices skyrocket lately, and a big part of it is Westerners earning good salaries teleworking from countries with lower standards of living.
Plus paying tax where you are living, of course.
[deleted]
I guess I'm so anti social that i haven't met anybody like that!
Yeah, I dunno. Just seems like not my thing. And if I were a 'youngin' today I'd probably be more likely to run into 'backpacker bros' and 'influencer girls' which is just not my type of person if I ever wanted to stay in a hostel.

There's a hostel on the same street as my business partners home in Cambodia. I feel for him all the drunkards that stumble around at all hours.
No fuckin idea, my friend

Same with all these terms, they're just to define something..of course it's going to become more mainstream and people will resent it for a different reason

Digital nomads rings lame as fuck in my ears, but someone was just using modern nomenclature to coin a term for a type of worker who was flexible to work from anywhere and took the liberty to do so.  It's just like influencers, the people who bandied about the term and wore it as a badge of honor tended to be the most annoying and entitled ones.

That type of 'my especially unique and informed experience' shit is endemic to humans.  It's the same coin as old people saying new music and slang sucks. These things will always be around

I just know despite the wankers, there's still a sizeable portion of folks who fall in the backpacker or digital nomad categories who are cool as hell and whose experiences I'm happy to learn from
Bro I’m just saying there is a difference between the two that’s all.
When I backpacked South America for 9 months I definitely did not feel like or would consider myself a tourist. It’s not a I’m better or more daring thing. I was literally living out of a backpack and bartending and bitching rides on my way up South America. Not exactly an experience the average tourist has or is open to.
My point is you cant jump to the conclusion that someone like OP is an unking bigot, just because they make a generalization based on their personal experiences.

If someone says “I think Brazilians are friendly” or “Tiktok influencers are annoying” you dont need to lecture them on the dangers of prejudice
And half of them don’t even talk about working, co-working experiences etc. One of the comments was about Medellín as it always is and it was about a 60 ye old Dutch lawyer who was murdered. Like how is that about being a “digital nomad”? The sub should be really be renamed.
Oof, my mistake. Then you're a gentrifier, not a colonizer. Understood.
Would certainly improve the Instagram/social media travel sphere if people posted more vulnerably about the ups and downs of traveling, rather than everyone just scrambling to make themselves look like they're blissfully happy 100% of the time
Thanks!
there are totally people that do. but to broadly paint it as all “instagram people” is grossly inaccurate 
Whatever your flat white loving heart makes privileged immigration sound better
i think you still can be a digital nomad without being an expat
Kinda like influencer
I doubt digital nomads are driving up the prices of hostels and hotels. The number of digital nomads that use these is insignificant compared to the number of regular tourists and business travellers. 

You have a point with apartment rents though. But this seems to be an Airbnb issue that is affecting rents in cities everywhere. Not just where digital nomads go.
Huh?
I know. I disagree is all.
Yeah but your still just travelling for pleasure, and measuring what experience you had and saying that makes it more real or meaningful, put's you near that category of those 'real travellers' you meet who have to flex on all the other people. Plenty of people may be only in a country for a couple of weeks and end up doing things even more amazing than you. Does that make you a toruist in their eyes?
Please review my initial comment. In no way, shape, or form did I refer to OP as a bigot.
Oh yes. Let me gentrify Mexico by moving in with my cousins, and starting from 0 because the USA has had me living paycheck to paycheck so with what little I’ve saved up I can start a new life with my family, who literally all live in Mexico... because that’s where I’m from? I don’t think you know what “colonizing” or “gentrifying” means comrade.
I just got back from a trip and when people ask me how it was and I share some honest disappointments they seem aghast that I am not gushing about all the wonderful, fantastic things I did. Sometimes travel is hard, you do make regrettable decisions and often you long for a simple piece of toast in your own kitchen. Maybe not a shining IG moment, but an honest one!
Straight up liar's
O2 getting a lil light in that bubble of yours aye
Also there are plenty of expats who stay in one place more than nomadding around
Well yea it’s for pleasure, why the fuck would I go somewhere or do something I don’t want to do? Lol. I don’t talk about my travels or brag to people. I do them because I wanted to go to that place. The experience is meaningful to me, I’m not comparing it to others or doing it to appease others. 

Are you dense? 

No I don’t think that’s make me a tourist in their eyes, it’s just my opinion but I think they’d still view me as a backpacker being that I’m living out of one and on an extended trip. It’s not a competition.
You are assuming they are incapable of evaluating people on a case by case basis, and automatically judge based on a generalization. Thats literally the definition of bigotry:“ obstinate or unreasonable attachment to a belief, opinion, or faction, in particular prejudice against a person or people on the basis of their membership of a particular group” You then lecture on kindness to counteract this.
Ok, you're right. My apologies for assuming you were of better means than the general populace just based on your departure point. I suppose I wanted to be a sassy asshole and took it out on the wrong person. Best of luck on your move and on your new life.
No worries man, I’m a tourist too
No I'm not dense. 

In fact for a start I understand the defintion of the word tourist, and you don't.
That is not the definition of bigotry, I don’t think anywhere in OPs post or my comment is there bigotry. Bigotry is being unreasonably attached to an idea, opinion, or belief particularly in the case when someone is prejudiced against another’s membership of some group. I’m sorry it upsets you so much that I recommend OP be more open-minded. It comes from a place of learning on my own part, particularly through restorative practices.
Well seems like you were implying that there are people that travel the world on their free time not for pleasure
No offense but have you ever actually traveled? It seems like you haven't met very many different kinds of people.
I got sexually harassed from receptionist of hostel


I’m 22y Female, I came to Venice, Italy yesterday night and today is my second day in this hostel. 

This morning I had to reception to ask for the towel, and he gave me a towel and asked me where am I from. I said I’m Korean and he said he thought I was Chinese, and I look really sexy. I felt uncomfortable from that moment, but I didn’t want to make a scene so I just say thank you and left. 

I head to the lounge and worked on my laptop, and that receptionist came to put the bed sheets down to the lounge. 

He says that he loves me, and ask me if I love him too. I really don’t get why this person asks this so randomly to me so I just said I don’t understand what you’re trying to say. He keeps asked me if I love him and I said I have a boyfriend. 

He said my face looks good and asked me if I want to have s3x with him. Of course I don’t want so I strongly said no several times, and he keeps telling me he has another private room in this building and ask for having s3x with him. 

I neglected several time and he left after that. I didn’t tell this to the manager of this facility but I already feel so frustrated since it’s not even the other guest but the staff of this facility that I’m gonna stay for few nights. I talked with my boyfriend about this but still I’m scared of what’s going to happen, or how the owner would react. I'm afraid of retaliation.

I’m going to tell this to the manager of this facility and the website that I used for making a reservation. I feel afraid about making a scene, please anyone give me advice about this situation.  

________


Edited:! 14.Sep.2024


Hello, guys. Final update.

Thanks for concerning and cheering for the last time. It really encouraged me a lot and helpful practically and mentally as well 🥹

First, I tried to contact through booking.com, I asked for the number of owner, I contacted with that number. I asked if he’s the owner of the facility because I wanted to make sure if I’m secured and safe to talk to him about this. He said he is not (which is someone gave me a different number, not the actual number of the owner) and refused to give me the actual number of the owner. And he told me to come to the hostel in the morning to meet him. Which I thought was quite a ridiculous thing to say.

After that, I saw someone left a review at google map after I post this, and the owner replied to that review to contact her. I contacted her, and she asked me about the situation and appearance of him. I told her every detail of situation and his appearance, name, etc. She sincerely apologized to me and promised me this kind of incident is never should have been happened and never going to happen anymore in that facility. She showed me a deep empathy toward this situation. And showed me thank for reaching out and report. And I got promised for the refund for whole stay. I didn’t reach out for the police since I didn’t have enough time in Italy but still think wish I would for the further incident that can be happened.

So… that’s how it all figured out. I will not able to do this all things without your all encouragement. I’m happy that I was able to report this situation and speak up. I also want to encourage all the people to not just tolerate sexual harassment and speak up for other women. Even though I felt so frustrated to report, explain, writing review, concerning about retribution but I’m sure that it was really important and worth to speak up.

I wouldn’t put any more words about that facility since I wouldn’t know how my words are going to affect.

Thanks again for sharing your opinion and numerous encouragement. I sincerely hope you all be happy, peace, and safe. I’ll always wish you all the luck : )
I would find a new hostel and check out of your current one. If a potential confrontation with the manager scares you, contact them via phone or email after you have left to tell them what is happening.
If this guy's doing it to you, he's doing it to others. And he's banking on the fact that you're young and scared and you're going to just move out rather than say anything.  
  
Let the manager know, for sure, and/or send in an email if you aren't able to talk to them. If he tries anything again, record it on your phone too.
Hi guys, really appreciate for all your encouragement. I get back to hostel to check out and tell manager about it, but a guy that harassed me was working. So I just checked out for now since I got afraid to confront but I asked him a name and remembered his face. 

It’s literally my first time having this situation so I couldn’t even think if this is harassment or not, that’s the big reason why I posted to listen to these opinions. And thank you for all your opinions.

I’m going to contact with the police tomorrow, leave the review, and ask for the refund through booking site. The name of the hostel is ‘ Ai Boteri ‘ ( Calle dei Botteri, 1699 ). Avoid this place guys.
>He says that he loves me, and ask me if I love him too.

this is super creepy

I know you said you didn't want to make a scene, but there's no other way, you need to speak up
Thanks for the all the comments and making me courageous. I just booked another hotel, on my way to move now, and going to tell the manager about this situation. I’ll update further situation. Thanks for the all the concerns, I really appreciate you all🥲 wish me luck
In this order:

1. Find and confirm a new hostel.
2. Check in an move into that hostel.
3. Return to the previous hostel and check out.
4. Email what happened to the manager and post it publicly.
5. Try to forget about it and enjoy the rest of your time in Italy. >!(This is not an attempt to be dismissive, you deserve to have a positive travel experience)!<
Name and shame this place.
I think your safety is the main concern here, not making a scene. This absolutely needs to be reported to the manager and needs to be reviewed. Women need to know about this guy and this hostel. They also need to know how the manager handles it. This is absolutely not OK.
He thinks you're easy prey coz you're alone. Stand up & speak to the manager. Always try to be where there's a camera for your own safety.

Remember to lock your bedroom door before going to sleep.
What’s the name of the hostel ?
I know this from reverse perspective. My colleagues has worked in hostel and that's the behavior she was experiencing the whole time from Italian guests. Those who went back 'empty handed' were saying she has beautiful eyes, they love her and such crap. One of them returned beaten, because he went to a girl that was together with her boyfriend, and because it didn't disturb him, he needed to get it explained manually that it's not an appropriate behavior.
I would 100% tell the manager, and look the manager could also be an asshole, because this is who he has hired. Same thing happened to me one night in Lima (Ancestral Barranco Café & Hostel for anyone wondering where the creeps and awful manager are). I spoke up, I am a man btw, so the owner of the hostel basically gave me a spiel about how he protects his female employees and guests, and then accused me of lying, it was a horrible feeling. But if I was to go back in time I would speak up again but shout it a little louder so the other guests would know. It’s not okay for someone to do that, and I understand how horrible it feels. 

If it helps to know it was really scary, even to tell one of the staff I trusted, so I have complete empathy for you. Hope your trip goes well and that you eat your heart worth of pasta
This is crazy. First thing find another hostel, book it, grab your stuff and get ready to leave. If the manager or someone other than this person is in the reception talk to them and tell what happened. If the manager is not around or that person is there just leave. When you’re safe elsewhere I’d suggest you email the manager and any platform you made the booking through telling what happened. Obviously the most important is your safety but they should give you a refund as well.
Please do make a big deal about it.
It’s regarding your safety. 
Talk to the manager also find a new place to stay. 
Please be safe.
Unfortunately this is why a lot of women don’t speak up, because we don’t want to make a scene. You aren’t making a scene for acknowledging what he has done was wrong. If you can leave that hostel I would leave, tell the manager and write a bad review on there website or google. He will think twice about doing this again to another woman.
As someone who has spent quite a bit of time in Italy, there are still a lot of Italian dickheads like this. They have an aggressive dating culture. I've seen an Italian man say this verbatim in Singapore because he wanted an Asian woman.

Hopefully you can find another hostel. There's a really good one in Mestre
First, get out of there immediately. Tell the manager you are leaving. If he asks what the reason is, say someone at home is in the hospital and you have to go home. 

Tell him repeatedly that you are leaving the country and flying back home. If he offers to leave you to the airport, say that your fiancé has already paid for it since you had to leave in a hurry. Don't let him be alone with you at all. 

Get to a safer hostel. If your embassy is helpful, call whatever help desk number you find online/ email them. Even if you don't find help, there should be should be a record of this happening to you somewhere. I'm assuming you don't want to go to the police. 

Leave detailed reviews everywhere you can think of. Mention your harasser's name in full. Write down the whole story. If you're not comfortable, write anonymously.

If worst comes to worst, speak up! Harassers love silence. But ensure you are on your way out of there before making one.
Please, get back at him with a [Vaffanculo pervertito del cazzo](https://translate.google.com/?sl=it&tl=en&text=vaffanculo%20pervertito%20del%20cazzo&op=translate) (added link to help with pronunciation)

Also..please complain about his behaviour with his manager; if doing so scares you because of potential retaliation just change hostel . I Hate that these kind of people prey on the most vulnerable and never think the can be held accountable for their behaviour.

Edit: i added link to google translate to help with pronunciation
Leave, write a review, and tell the manager.
Hello, guys. Final update.

Thanks for concerning and cheering for the last time. It really encouraged me a lot and helpful practically and mentally as well 🥹

First, I tried to contact through booking.com, I asked for the number of owner, I contacted with that number. 
I asked if he’s the owner of the facility because I wanted to make sure if I’m secured and safe to talk to him about this. He said he is not (which is someone gave me a different number, not the actual number of the owner) and refused to give me the actual number of the owner. And he told me to come to the hostel in the morning to meet him. Which I thought was quite a ridiculous thing to say.

After that, I saw someone left a review at google map after I post this, and the owner replied to that review to contact her. I contacted her, and she asked me about the situation and appearance of him. I told her every detail of situation and his appearance, name, etc. She sincerely apologized to me and promised me this kind of incident is never should have been happened and never going to happen anymore in that facility. She showed me a deep empathy toward this situation. And showed me thank for reaching out and report. And I got promised for the refund for whole stay. I didn’t reach out for the police since I didn’t have enough time in Italy but still think wish I would for the further incident that can be happened. 

So… that’s how it all figured out. I will not able to do this all things without your all encouragement. I’m happy that I was able to report this situation and speak up. I also want to encourage all the people to not just tolerate sexual harassment and speak up for other women. Even though I felt so frustrated to report, explain, writing review, concerning about retribution but I’m sure that it was really important and worth to speak up. 

I wouldn’t put any more words about that facility since I wouldn’t know how my words are going to affect. 

Thanks again for sharing your opinion and numerous encouragement. I sincerely hope you all be happy, peace, and safe. I’ll always wish you all the luck : )
First, I'm so-so sorry. If you can afford it, you should switch to a different place. And don't fear saying why. If you can't, I fear reporting him to his manager might be your only option. I feel you can trust him. All managers care about is money, and a creepy employee is terrible for business. A manager wouldn't want a law suit, or the police involved because of a racist pervert. 
Again, I'm sorry you're going through this. Good luck.
I’m so sorry this happened to you. I agree with the rest of the comments here, please report him. Sounds like this guy volunteers at the hostel through Worldpackers and has nothing to lose as they don’t receive a salary. I’ve met countless of them when I was backpacking and the things they say about the stuff that they do at the hostel can be really unhinged at times.
Make a scene!!! This is unacceptable!
Fellow Asian female. Remove yourself from the situation and find another hostel to stay in. Report the creep to the manager when you check out. And then put the place on blast once you've moved on from Venice - name and shame. Other solo female travellers will thank you for it.
Well i am a guy and sometimes to get out of awkward situations i pretend i don’t understand them or don’t speak English 😂 but in all seriousness you should make a formal complaint to the authority. This might be the biggest concerns for solo travelling girl be safe!! How are finding solo travelling anyways i booked my first solo trip for tokyo,seoul and laos with no plan!
immediately leave first, complain later, or call the cops, then leave...stay safe
Did you book through Hostelworld or any other app? I would immediately get in touch with their customer service and mention you’re about to take a legal recourse with the authorities. SA like this is very serious and can get the hostel delisted.

But first things first, change your hostel ASAP and take yourself out of that unsafe situation.
Men like this bank on us not making a scene. If people are around respond uncomfortably loudly that, no, as you’ve stated several times you do NOT want to have sex with him, and that he needs to get out of your space should he do it again before you can get the fuck out of there. 

If you get out of there before he comes onto you again, again, use an audience to your advantage when you speak with a manager and make sure you confront them on this behavior. His actions are disgusting and he should be made to feel just as uncomfortable as you are.
Tell management and the website. You're not making a scene, he is way out of line. If you're uncomfortable, leave the hostel first and tell by phone or email. They should take you seriously, his behavior is out of line and bad for their businesses.
Look up the hotel on Google Maps and post a review

Also the manager could be on the side of the receptionist, as in hiring his family for this job so he wont do anything with the complaint. Check if there is a level above the manager who you can complain to
Make sure you get refunded and this guy is flagged
Agree with finding another hostel. Act nice and just slip out without a scene. After you're safe and secure at another hostel, I would be in touch with the management and also if you've booked it through Agoda or whatever I would of course let them know too. 

Then I would do a Google review of the place and explain to them the whole thing that you just explained here. 

That behavior is totally disrespectful and should be punished.
Take a picture of him, just in case. Stay safe!
I just saw the Google ratings and review of that hostel. That place seems horrible. Whoever reading this, go there and submit a review to warn ladies not to go there.

https://maps.app.goo.gl/wZum3Pv3NdmybzR3A
All the comments making excuses that it's the "Italian culture!" is trivializing OP's experience. Something that's expected of an establishment is professionalism from the staff. Hell, I've been to crazy party hostels where the staff join in on the partying, but they also understand boundaries and don't sexually harass guests.
He's got the mentality of: ask 20 girls and one will agree... Gross, name shame and report the place to oblivion.
I've never been to Italy, and I don't plan to go, but this is what I've seen about Italian men all over social media. They fetishize women of different nationalities to get another notch on their belt. Don't kill the messenger. I'm only regurgitating what I've read on social. So it's anecdotal.
Pretty much normal Italian male behavior.  Just tell the manager to tell his employee to leave you alone.
Why the fuck are we censoring the word sex??
I’m sorry that this happened. First find a new hostel for your safety, then write what happened in a review on Booking or Google Maps, both to let the manager know what happened and to warn other guests.
Tell the manager, and tell the guy if he as much as looks in your direction one more freaking time he's gonna have a real problem. Make sure you say NO I'M NOT INTERESTED GO AWAY in the way he understands.
talk to the owner.
Is the hostel part of an association?  (Dunno about Italy but there are large groups of hostels in Germany, Croatia and the UK that share marketing arrangements).  If so, they won't want rogue members tarnishing their image.
First, I’m sorry this happened. You need to be safe. Don’t worry about making a scene get out get your stuff get another place then call and talk to the manager and make sure you get the guys name secondary. I follow Lady on Instagram who talks about the Italian lifestyle she’s married to Italian man and she said she loves how directed and that’s a different culture and she loves the culture. There’s no room for. But when the woman says no very directly, they need to take no for an answer.
Book another hostel, tell the manager, get your money back and move to the new place. If they refuse to refund you, let them know you will contact the booking site and the police.
Tell the manager s9 this guy can get fired
Leave ASAP, take the financial hit if you can and find another place to sleep. I’m worried for your safety, and you should be too. Try to get a photo of the guy, or at least his name.

Report him. Report, report, report. Report him to hell and back. Do it after you leave, if you’re worried about retaliation. The only true retaliation you would have to worry about would take place while you are still physically there, so leave and do all of this after you are gone from and guaranteed not to return to the building.
Reply to this comment with the name of the hostel and let the internet do its thing if you still don’t want to contact the manager
Clearly over the line.  Leave and notify the manager by email afterwards if you are nervous about it
If this isn’t Combo go and call Combo and explain your situation and ask for a bed there.
Sorry you had to go through this. Hostels are always full of weirdos I always recommend against them if possible.
Drop the number so we can bombard the manager with calls. They’ll never know who started it
Make the damn scene. Because no telling how many women deal with that shit and he's a super creep. It could potentially save someones life.
I hope you get out IMMEDIATELY. The scary thing about this is they have aaccess to all rooms and they could sneak in your room.

And if you can do it anonymously please leave a review so that other travelers are warned.

Take care and be safe!
Sometimes I read posts on here from people who don’t get out enough stating like “some creep at a hostel told me I was cute and asked if I wanted to get a coffee, do I report him?!”

This is not that. This is weird. Probably let another staff member know.
Take his picture. Post it anywhere (Instagram, etc). Now you have a stronger position to assert, “Leave me alone. You have no right to talk to me this way. I have already posted your photo to 300 contacts as someone who is harassing me, so just stop now.” Be direct and firm… “STOP. NO. SEXUAL HARASSMENT IS WRONG. GO AWAY. I HATE YOU.” Guys respond more to commands like you’re in the military.
Report him and if he comes close to you again, have your phone record the whole interaction. I'd check out and move to another hostel and ask for compensation.
Check out and move to another hostel. 

This guy has already indicated he is not willing to accept no for an answer and as staff he has keys and knows where the security is, etc...
Tell the Manager. Don't be afraid of making a scene. Tell other people in your dorm too.
Get out of there ASAP and report it. It's almost certain you're not an isolated case. It's also extremely likely he will turn aggressive. He's already plotted this through enough to have hidden places to bring you to - he's dangerous, not just some clueless guy with really bad insight and pick ups.
This is yucky.
Once you’ve left, please leave a review about this if you booked on Hostelworld to warn other girls
Call the police this is not acceptable
Get out of there as soon as possible.
You should change hostels, immediately
What the fuck is wrong with this guy? Report this guy and leave for a different hostel.

You need to name the place so it doesn’t happen to other women.
Police 👮‍♀️
Girl you need to leave ASAP and write a review or call them and let them know after you have left
Please tell the management, nothing will change if people don’t speak up
Can you tell us the name of the Hostel?
You need to tell the manager right away. Then find yourself a different place to stay. This probably isn't the first time they've done this.
Name and shame the place. I wouldn't be at all surprised if it's the same shit hole I ended up at when I stayed in Venice back in July. There were some dodgy characters working there.
So glad you left! He’s disgusting and I’m sure this isn’t the first time he’s sexually harassed women at his job. It’s actually really scary. He’s a predator and I’m glad you got out! You’re a strong woman and I’m proud of you.
Contact their manager and have him fired. Or is there a female employee you could talk to? Then talk to her. If nothing happens, leave a review on Google.
Film and record as much as you can just in case.
What he is doing is a criminal offense.
Go to the police and make a report of this
Stay safe you should never ever ever feel threatened. Are you traveling by yourself?
Find another hostel and report.
Get out and report him. If it’s happening to you it will happen to others. Get out and don’t leave a trace to what Hotel you’ll go to. They can’t get mad at you for what he is trying to do.
Wait that you leave before making a complaint
1. Find a new place to stay
2. Checkout and leave 
3. Tell them you had change of plans 
4. Complain to the manager via email or in person
5. You don't want to stick around 

Your safety is important.
Do not, and I cannot stress this enough - DO NOT express gratitude in a situation where you have NOTHING to be grateful for and when you clearly feel uncomfortable and lines are being crossed.

This is a situation where you tell them they are crossing a line, that you feel unsafe and violated.

Women are not obligated to be nice. Show your teeth, and show them their place. Hell, act dangerously insane if need be.

You need to deter them, and say no to this behaviour, instead of ruminating if you will look bad if you aren’t nice!
Tell the manager to get a refund and find a new hostel. The hostel has become hostile, sorry had to do it lol
Record him.
Contact the booking website and ask them to arrange a different accommodation for you if possible. If not, ask for a refund and find an alternative yourself.

I wouldn't want to be anywhere near that guy, and even if nothing happens I don't think it's going to help you rest and enjoy your time there.
Please leave ASAP and don’t tell anyone which new hotel/hostel you went to. I don’t want to scare you more, but staff may have access to rooms even if you think they are locked. You did absolutely NOTHING wrong, and I’m so sorry you have to go through this, but please just leave now.
I think....you met old gregg. Seriously though, this is why i wouldn't stay at a hostel.
Get the hell out of that hotel!!
As women, we are so worried about being polite that we ignore basic instincts. I'm sure your fight or flight kicked in, and you're ignoring it. 

This man, has access to your room, your personal information, credit card information...as a receptionist. Why are you not out of there? Make a scene! He is sexually harassing you! Everyone should know. The only thing he hasn't done, is put his hands on you and he seems bold enough to do it. GET OUT!
You should immediately tell the manager and then check into another hostel if he’s not immediately fired. 

Safety is important and he’s an obvious creep, who knows what he’ll get up to if he keeps getting away with pushing boundaries.
He is a creepy person. Remember his name and the times the incident occurred. I hope you report him.
Did you make any friends there? Usually women who are traveling alone are very outspoken or at the very least brave so make a friend and send an email. Always put things in writing. Ask to speak to the owner so you can get a full refund and get this animal out. I’m sorry you’re going through this.
I would leave and transfer to a different hostel, if you’re in a budget try to voice record the convo so you can get a refund since that receptionist is a duck. 

This happened to me at one of the airports in Europe when it took me a longer time to get my luggage and the airport personnel was small-talking me, nonstop “guessing” my nationality and unwantingly flirting and I just cut it to, “You know what sir, please just give me my luggage.

And yes, Asian, too, Southeast.
Had a friend who works in hospitality. Normally the managers themself have the same behaviour as the workers. 
Make as much noise about it to whoever you can.  0 reason you should go into a place & made to feel that uncomfortable by staff.  Be a strong voice.
Jesus..you are a paying customer! Exercise your rights!
First, glad you made it out of there! If you end up looking again for another place to stay I had a good experience at generator, tho it was before covid so idk how much it’s changed. I second all the advice making sure you report/get your refund. I’d just say going forward to do loooots of research on the reviews/reputation of establishments, there’s no guarantee but at least will minimize the odds of more seedy encounters. 

So sorry you had to deal with this and I hope you can still get the most out of your visit!
I'm so sorry this happened to you. I remember when I was walking in Venice last year, I had a guy who asked me to go with him while I was sight seeing in public. I pretended I was meeting my boyfriend and ran away. 

You have to report this incident so other girls wouldn't have to experience this! Tell the manager or change hostel and leave a negative review with his description so others are warn.
Better change hostels. Pretty dumb to be a foreigner and continue to stay in a hostel where you’re being sexually harassed by the hostel staff. Being mean to make you realize you gotta be less naive and think with street smarts
Really sad to hear that.

Maybe we Asians always reject too gently, giving them a false appearance that we are too weak to say no. 

I would say get out of this place and find a better one. Your safety is more important.
The employee may have access to your room. Tell the manager right away about the employee’s behavior. If the manager doesn’t take action find another place to stay.
I might pretend to have covid and cough, sneeze, blow nose, and anything that would deter him from getting close while I search for another hostel to move to.
Did this guy seem to be foreign to Italy? Out of curiosity
So pleased you are no longer there. As a mother of two young adult daughters, I would say please carry a personal alarm on you at all times, if feared contact the police immediately, contact and let your family friends know of of your whereabouts. Hope you have a great rest of your holiday/ break.
Also, as a female solicitor, be alert and record conversations where possible.
He says that to every chick. There is a reason the dirty desperate pervert works in a hostel.

Name him to manager and get him fired. Name him in review and get him fired
It's so weird hearing people just call another straight up sexy. There's so many word he could have picked.
Please please find a new facility and complain to the manager. This man has access to the spaces where you sleep and shower and he’s openly sexually harassing you. This isn’t safe at all. I’m a total stranger on the internet and feeling very worried about you. Please make other arrangements and complain after that, so they know he’s not safe around female guests.
Wow what a perv. Hope the police takes action and he is fired and kicked out of the country and hospitality business.
Name and shame
Me too
Talk to the owner. His business is involved. He would take it with a different seriousness
The way you are describing the man, it sounded like he is confident of his act, and seems like he had done this type of act many times so maybe he might have got some powerful people in his support , i prefer you to make smth note about this incident if any worst thing  happen to some friends, it was a nice thing u did telling your bf 
I prefer you to complain about it to manager and i want you to check out the hotel as soon as possible.
That receptionist’ behaviour is unacceptable. It is important you address this to the manager bc this person may also be volunteering through programs like #Worldpackers.
if you’re scared about making a “scene”, remember other girls will thank you. he’s a potential threat
Creepo'clock. Go to another hostel asap if you can afford it. This is absolutely vile, and I feel sorry for you...Avoid any drinks given to you somehow, i.e., water, bottled water. Anything passing your lips. Good luck hun.
Move out ASAP. Find another accommodation!
I am glad you are out of that place. 

I would like to say I am surprised but I am not, we have a say in Italy "la mamma dei cretini è sempre incinta'", which is not my favourite saying due to its implications but it does get the message through and it means roughly "stupidity breeds stupidity", meaning there is always going to be an idiotic prick around.
 
Regardless, this is not acceptable nor normal behaviour and everyone who says so is either someone who has sexist views or has a skewed idea of Italians. Yes, sexual harassment is not something people seem to easily understand or even recognise here but also, the guys I am friend with/I respect would never act this way and have actually called out people for showing this kind of behaviour.

What I am trying to say, in a convoluted way,  is that I hope the rest of your journey here goes well and that you don't have to deal with this kind of bs but, if you do, I hope you take into account that not everyone is like this.
Pack your bags. Tell the manager. Get out of there.
Chargeback and lawsuit 

NAL
i’ve never stayed at a hostel but i heard they’re affordable so you’re just gonna have to chalk it up and take the loss on it. leave and don’t care about the payment/refund. there’s a chance nothing will happen and there’s also a chance something could happen.  so just leave now to avoid a possibly traumatic experience. you’re a young woman you should have a low threshold for moving away from weirdos especially internationally where support may be limited
There is a good chance that the receptionist has done this before to other guests. If he has not yet been fired, there must be a reason. He may be related to the manager, like a son or a nephew. It's best to get out of there as soon as possible and never be alone with any of the staff. Contact the manager after you leave. If you must talk to him in person make sure there are other people around.  Stay safe.
This will not happen in China, Korea, Japan or anywhere in South East Asia.
Tell the manager quick!!  That behavior is not okay and the manager will agree!!
Stay away from that hostel ma’am. Try to find another place ASAP, I’m not saying something bad is gonna happen but your safety is the priority
Tell him you are a non intercourse bdsm mistress, then string him up by the nipples and put his balls in a vice🫶
Least horny Italian
I will gladly call him and curse him out for you.
[removed]
Make a scene. He is. 
You won't be making a scene by speaking up about your experience and how uncomfortable he made you feel.
Plenty of hostels attract employees like this. It's a low-paying/volunteer job where you get to meet people in their 20s from all over the world who are only there for 2-3 nights
Blast him in a review and leave the hostel. He sounds unpredictable and could escalate.
Word of advice, don’t travel alone if you’re not going to stand up for yourself. Most countries that are popular for solo travelers will look the other way if something happens. Stop being scared and stick it to people who harass you. No one is going to watch your back except you.
Ask him if he likes his job and wants to keep it, then leave you the f alone.
hey there! you dealt the situation bravely girl. Proud of you 👏🏻Always voice out things whenever in you are in such a situation because people keeping silent is what motivates them to do it without fear! Happy travelling 😄
This is why I always say women should not travel alone. I get it. You shouldn’t have to rely on any man, but this world can be a beautiful and a shitty place.

It’s not all sunshine and rainbows.
Hostels are dangerous af and i still can't believe how no one talks about it.
Cool story
I’m glad you were safe in the end but I strongly disagree about you not posting the name of that hostel. Maybe they will do something about this employee after the fact and maybe they won’t. But it should never happened in the beginning and this is not a safe place for women. If it was your sister or anther mom, would you really want them let’s say going next week in the “hopes” that it was taken care of?! Or would you be highly recommending to them to go elsewhere?! 

How can other women go elsewhere if you don’t publicize where this was EXACTLY?! 

If you have this person’s first name I would publicize that as well. Anyway, be well
So sorry this happened to you. Never be afraid to speak up in these situations, people will come forward to support and help you.
I would strongly recommend for you to watch the movie Hostel
CALL THE POLICE

you cannot trust the hostel staff or boss to do the right thing. They just want to make sure they dont get bad reviews and that they are still in business otherwise they wouldnt have still let that creep work there. You were possibly tricked by the boss so they wouldnt have the police called and so you wouldnt leave a bad review affecting their business
Did they fire employee
just tell them you are enjoying your first vacation since your sex change operation. That will stop people like that.
Hi, Italian here. First of all, let me tell you that I feel sorry for what has happened to you. That is unaccaptable and nobody should feel what you felt.

That being said, I'd like to give some information to let everyone knows how to react in the case somenthing similar shoud happend.

In Italy, when someone report to be victim for sexual assault, the victim is generally considered credible, and it's up to the accused to defend themselves and prove their innocence. This means that if you go to the police, you're not the one who needs to gather evidence to support your story — it's up to the other person to do so. Now, this doesn't mean they will be convicted without evidence (that's still the presumption of innocence), but it does give victims a stronger incentive to come forward. Unfortunately, these types of reports aren’t always taken seriously, so my advice is to ask to speak to a female officer, as it's more likely that she will "get" the issue. Just to be clear: most men in Italy are absolutely against any form of violence and fully support these kinds of reports. But, given how sensitive this topic is, I still think it’s a good idea to try and talk to a woman, as they generally are capable of more empathy on this subject.

Also, in Italy there is the presumption of innocence, but there are no legal consequences for someone filing a report against sexual assault even if they don't have hard evidence - unless it’s proven that the story was blatantly false.

Finally: Italy also has anti-violence centers specifically and only for women — please let's not argue here about the lack of equivalent centers for men, that’s not the point right now — where you can get full and solid support and indications.
Italy, the thailand for women.
You have a post from two years ago saying you were 22y and today you are still 22?
Yeah Italian men are known for being like that. Some would call it romantic while others call it rapey.
Its actually a verbal rape. Please report this to the local authority ASAP. He should be punished and no other women should be teased or sexually harassed by him anymore. Be the voice of voiceless sister.
italian men are like that - trashy

they are not like in the movies..
Tell him you are not Jennie from blackpink and get over it
It doesn't make it ok but that's Italy for you
Thats just how italian men are 😉borderline sex offenders depending how you feel about it
Average italian
Let's explain, I am a foreigner teaching and building a hostel for a very famous hostel in another city. You report it to the manager, if you are scared of him you do it where there are guests. You make a decision on his reaction to stay or leave, if you do decide to leave you assist on a refund as it is the manager's problem to solve it not yours. Book into another hostel/homestay but not close by as the people love to talk. From there you can decide what you want to do, get the main problem solved and then decide  if you are taking the next step. He will go to jail for that and he knows it. But there are other ways as well by opening it up so foreigners know it is a red flag if you do go there, so business will decline for them. I have a policy that if I see , hear or catch any staff member he/she will be dismissed straight away. Tour guides like to do this with foreigners and get them drunk, be careful is all I can say. If he wants you to drink with him drink the drink you can drink not rice wine/happy water as they can drink it very well and the other party gets drunk. Drink beer for example as after 2 beers most of them are drunk and you will be fine, that is why I say, drink something they are not use to. Good luck and if you guys need help, you are more than welcome to ask. I am 11 months in Vietnam already and know the right people and how they work. Enjoy Vietnam and do not let one person make your holiday unpleasant, there are great people willing to help professionally.
Tell manager and if he doesn't help the police.
That happens. Thankfully he didn’t touch you or force you. Many years ago, I managed a hostel. Had a fairly stable live in staff. We all had a lot of sex with the travelers, but any coercion would have been intolerable. I would throw him or her out the door.
[removed]
Solution is simple, make a comment on Google Maps, Booking or Airbnb etc which informs other people.
Thumbs down for not telling the manager, because you give the perpetrator the opportunity to continue without problems.  Tell the manager, and find a safe hostel.
"I felt uncomfortable from that moment, but I didn’t want to make a scene so I just say thank you and left."   This is where you fucked up, should have told him right there that you didn't like that. But the rest was definitely creepy and he really pushed boundaries. 


"I didn’t tell this to the manager of this facility" Fucked up because now he is going to keep doing it. Doing it later just makes it harder to deal with. Do it on the spot.
In some countries, a woman travelling alone is in real danger. They just skip the seduction part and just take you. Women should avoid travelling alone in many places.
Then would never happen, if you are visiting Japan ;)
Other woman probably have banged for a free room
You can write the word sex. We're all adults here.
He is likely misusing the word love because Italians generally don’t do well in English. In Romance languages, there’s a word for the like-love level of friends, crushes/significants and for soulmates. It would probably be a more accurate translation to say, “I think you’re attractive; would you like to have sex with me?” 

This is common in southern Europe in general; propositioning is not at all taboo and likely won’t be frowned upon by his manager unless it’s an upscale hotel or restaurant. If you wish to fully avoid such interactions, you’ll need to either skip Portugal, Spain and Italy.. or stay at some much nicer locations than one star hostels.
Mental health treatment is really still somewhat taboo in Italy from what I hear he may be mentally ill, or he may be neurodivergent and not have good social skills not a good qualification for a receptionist
Remember his name or his looks and mention this in a review. Put them on blast publicly on google revies or something, at the very least he gets fired
My go-to whenever I'm asked about checking out early at weird places is "oh my boyfriend surprised me and came here early so we got a hotel!"

 Damn. I heard Mike the "Situation" was in bad financial shape, but I didn't know it was this bad.
Get a photo of him and send it to your loved ones along with his name and anything else that would help find him before checking out and speaking with management. Good luck.
If things haven’t radically changed since I was last there, there are very very few hostels in Venice.  There may not be much in the way of options.
This 100%. Creeps get away with it because no one calls them on it.
Your safety is top priority! Trust your instrincts, u already know what to do. Find a new place, move all your things to the new hostel if u can. Then return to this shit place and report to the manager but don't be alone in any room with anyone. Even in a reputable place or shit hole, u never know if this horrible staff is related to the manager or owner. Most of the time possibly that's why he is so blazen and daring. Italians protect each other especially men, and they could always turn things around and blame it on language barrier or miscommunication. If u have any interactions with hostel staff, keep voice recording on in mobile in pocket. Take pics if possible. Please go to the police and report it. It's much better since u are alone. Venice is not that big. Your actions can save the next girl from being his victim totally sucks but very very necessary. U got this 👍 💪 💓
You don't know that for sure, he said he loves her.
The reviews for that place are terrible. The staff and manager apparently have a reputation for being rude and lying and it looks like there’s been a recent bed bug infestation according to multiple people. OP, check your bag and clothes for bedbugs.
I'd even leave a complaint with the local embassy and ask them to help if possible. Sorry you have to deal with this far from home.
You still need to report it to the management in addition to the online reviews. Don’t be afraid of doing it.
Horrible. I’ve definitely been flirted with with hostel workers but asking you to sleep with him is going too far! Did you talk to any other girls while there? So scary. I’m glad you’re safe.
Stay safe.
I’m very sorry this happened to you, genuinely - but I really doubt the cops will do anything about this, fwiw
Good for you!  I'm so glad you're out of there, and hope your follow up went well.
You ever drunk baileys from a shoe?
[deleted]
Drop the name of the hotel here, so people can avoid the place.
Good. Don't put your safety at risk to safe some bucks. Glad you got out and away from that situation. 

And stay vigilant, it is not as safe as Korea but with a little common sense it is fine and you'll have a lot of fun!

행운을 빌어요~~~
That's good to hear, stay safe.
You got this 🦾
Good luck!!
I hope the rest of your trip is save and free from harassment!
hope you got somewhere better, what a terrible thing to have to deal with. This guy is clearly a creep and you are safer away from there. Stay safe and hopefully the rest of your experiences are much better
Good luck, hwaiting!
THIS^ I seriously can’t believe what I’m reading in these other comments. Absolutely horrible advice.
Nicely put.
Exactly this, and in the meantime anytime he's near you record audio or video and if you feel threatened go to caserma and speak to the carabinieri. And keep safe!
This and also leave an honest (bad) review too among other things
Italy.
I really don’t get all the comments about shaming the place. Chances (I hope) are that the manager had no clue, and will take the appropriate measures once finding out. Ofc if she warns the manager and he doesn’t react appropriately (I.e., being helpful with her AND calling the police to deal with his employee), I don’t see why he deserves his hostel to get publicly shamed?
I agree that this sounds like he is not concerned with escalating his behavior, and could be very dangerous. Go to another hostel immediately.
He has a key
Leave
Barricade the door until you’re able to get out
I wouldn’t sleep there again at all
"Explained manually" good one, that made me laugh!
Btw OP, thank you for opening this discussion again. It gave me the confidence to write the bad review for that shithole that it always deserved. No one deserves to be sexually harassed
This is good advice.  👍
Good for you!  Stay safe!
Don't generalize please... we aren't all like this.
🤮
There are various European countries where prostitution is legal such as the Netherlands or Spain, Italy is certainly not among them. Thailand and Italy don't really have similarities in this context
You can't judge an entire country by just one man.
Probably a guy with a fetish.
No one finds a stranger asking them to have sex “romantic”
Who in their right mind would call this romantic?
Racism moment!!!
Are you sure every Italian men is like this?
I feel offendend being Italian.

I never met strangers to have sex and I will never think to do so.

The only thing is I like to do is greet strangers and ask where they come from because since I come from a small town, is hard to find foreigners as tourists. 

I will never say "you're so sexy...come with me".
She's not even in Vietnam wth LOL
And then go to prison and get charged for physical assault. OP can handle this herself. Great you’re not her boyfriend.
Was that your main takeaway from this post?
Stop normalizing harassment. It is absolutely not common in southern Europe, unless you’re a pervert. Not the entire southern Europe is perverted.
Definitely tell the hostel manager or owner about the receptionist.  They will fire him.  Imagine owning a hostel and finding out some scumbag team member is acting this way.   They will make it right, and if not, then put them on blast.
This would be a final step
This is might be the worst advice on how to deal with sexual harassment that I’ve ever seen. I’m shocked you got upvoted…

You absolutely have to speak to the manager privately. If no manager then whoever is in charge at the time.

-Explain what happened and that you’d like a refund. Very simple. 

-Find a new hostel.

-if they refuse a refund, then you pack your bags, wait outside and call the police. This is sexual harassment and it is ILLEGAL.

-if you really don’t want to call the cops (which you should at this point. 

you deserve a refund, and most importantly you deserve not to be harassed.)

leave call the hostel owner, or if you used hostelworld, you can make a claim through them. They more than likely refund you.

-Most importantly you GTFO ASAP.
"...a better one than this" at the end, If you want to rub it in
As above, don't let this happen to other travellers, tell the owner.
Creeps get away with it because the authorities don't support the people who call them out, leading to more people not calling them out
Would you be interested in helping out a Nigerian prince by any chance?
Very interesting that several men complained of rude service. Staff enjoy either being rude to men or sexually harassing women it seems!
OMG, I just took a look!  How are they still in business?  There's been reports of bedbugs, no climate control, rude staff, and disgusting conditions for at least 8 years???
Yes, that would be my biggest concern at this point. I would even consider throwing away the clothes you're wearing. And washing EVERYTHING else.
I just found this post I stayed in this hostel this past July. It was pretty bad I’m not surprised by her experience, it really wasn’t good.
No. This is sexual harassment. Stop finding excuses for this kind of behavior. It is NOT OK in Italy nor elsewhere.
Sounds a lot like rape culture to me. You're saying Italian men flirt by telling strangers to have sex with them,  and that they love them.
>
I travelled along the cinque terre, in Rome and in Venice and I never experienced this as the 'culture'. There are creeps everywhere, and every creep has a similarity to the other creeps, irrespective of nationality.
Yeah, it's "the culture" and not at all on the creepy guy acting completely inappropriate to a guest of an establishment. Give me a break.
>this is ITALY. That's how they flirt there, it's their culture.

one thing is to flirt

another thing is asking a stranger if they love you
Yes Venice is quite small it’s best to avoid the establishment until the worker gets fired
Don't care he hired a sexual predator.
Unless you're in a private room, you can't really barricade a hostel dorm. Should leave though for sure.
Thanks. Hope OP takes it and stays safe.
American girls in Italy do
American girls in Italy
Italians aren’t a race. They are citizens of a country called italy. Are you apart of the french race? Maybe the british race?
That was my aggression. And even if I would have beat him like that I would do it anonymously. I can’t be her boyfriend, I already have a girlfriend.
Find the new hostel first. Then you're in a stronger position. They should understand why you're leaving. If the manager is an ass about it, you confirmed your decision.
It was in response to "if potential confrontation scares you."
You must be a man
I don’t think police in Italy are going to do anything about this. She needs to do whatever makes her feel safe. And ideally notify the manager but that might not be the safest thing.
[deleted]
This! I bet you I would report even the more crude catcalling if I knew it would actually have legal consequences. But going to the police just to potentially be questioned what you were wearing etc.? That's just asking for more abuse at this point. I have no experience with Italian police but from what I hear about domestic violence and rape incidences, I'm not sure they're particularily good at helping/supporting women.
Many people only look at price.
What was that moron’s defense that has deleted it now?
[deleted]
And how are you supposed to assess whether someone is one during the hiring process? Surely they won’t advertise it.
Most definitely.  The front desk guy is a sexual deviant and for the gull to approach a stranger like that, he may very well be capable of alot worse.  

Please stay safe OP.  :)
As an American woman who’s gone to Italy, no we don’t.
No they don't. Everyone thinks that's creepy
I apologise, let me do it again:

Discrimination based on ethnic background, culture and nationality moment!!!!!

Oh and race is non existant in humans, racism is just a word to discriminate based on where you are from nowadays.
It is xenophobic.
Don't worry. Your comment was fine. I don't know wtf this idiot is talking about.
Completely. She was just sexually harassed, last thing she probably wants is to speak privately with the manager (who could be a man) and might involve some confrontation in a tough moment.
Who's joking, I'm as much offended as you. Meanwhile don't you go making assumptions regarding my sex or who I talk too. Idiot.
Something in the line of "That's just the culture of men Italy, totally normal"
Why is not shocking that a passport bros sub shows up almost immediately in your comment history. Gtfo excusing this behavior.
Not it aint. Nothing wrong with being horny as fuck and being unable to stop yourself from saying innapropriate shit to strangers. Its good depending on how the other person feels about it.
Damn. I’m baked. Im honestly not sure who I was replying to as I think the comment was deleted. It was the one with the guy talking about Italians being lovey or whatever nonsense. This is not the comment I meant for this reply. Please accept my humble apology.
Ah, of course!
It is not nice to classify entire nation with population of over 60 million as such
No problem... I take my insult back, no hard feelings.
Stereotypes
On a cruise through the nile rn  and everybody asking me: Where are all your friends and family?
When it is lunch or dinner time, the staff ask me “where is the rest of your friends?” (Because everybody eats at the same time and everybody have company) and I have to say “I’m by myself” and their reactions are the funniest.
“Are you by yourself???” and I say “Yeah, me, myself, and I.” 

I lost track of how many people have asked me that here.

I feel sorry that not everybody enjoy their own companies. 

This guy was like “Hey, where are you friends and family?” while he was serving me some food and I said “I don’t have any friends” just because I was tired of answering the same thing. He didn’t know how to react and fist bumped me.

Come onnnn man, I can stay on the deck as much as I want, I have all the time for myself and I love it.

Solo traveling is so alien for some people.

Have you had any of these situations happening to you?

PS: The waiters just put two girls that have just arrived to sit in the same table I am.
He also said “We wanted to put you with someone, so we found you a friend, or a wife… one for you one for me habib” 
And inside I’m like: FUUUU*K
I had a friend who went on a cruise by herself and when people started getting too personal she said she was a widow who recently lost her husband. That shut them up.
When I was wandering around Europe, mostly I heard it on the trains. I usually got positive reactions though, like, "wow! I could never do that!" or "that's so brave!" ... I don't think I heard anything negative, but I wasn't quite as surrounded as I would have been on a cruise :) ... That said, I do a lot by myself - eat out at restaurants, go to movies. It's just such my mode these days, I don't think much about it.
I think some people have a hard time imagining traveling solo. A cruise also tends to attract more family & group travel than other types of vacations in my experience. Unless it’s in a judgmental or rude tone, I’d take it as curiosity rather than anything malicious. “Nope, I’m enjoying the peace and quiet of traveling solo this trip!” (Do be careful admitting you’re alone if you’re female and this is a lone guy who seems abnormally interested. Very rarely, a creep is trying to suss out if anyone would care if you got hurt or went missing.)

Btw, is there any reason traveling solo on this trip would bother you at all? I ask because the only time I remember these comments got under my skin was when I didn’t realize I’d be on a trip *full* of couples (my SO stayed home). I guess I felt a bit insecure being the odd one out, even though that normally isn’t an issue. Once I realized why that situation made me feel weird, and that there was nothing to feel bad about, I was able to let it go, and even ended up meeting another girl who was solo to chill with! 
Make up what every story you like.  Try they all died in a plane crash, were murdered by outlaws or are in prison.
Went on a package holiday once for ease. They even offered a solo discount..... never again. Lost count of the amount of people asking if I was on my own then giving me weird looks when I said I was.

This also included a similar situation to yours at dinner, when a female server shouted across a packed dining room to ask 'are you on your own love!?'

The concept seems so alien to some folk, but those are exactly the type of people I don't want to encounter when travelling, so at least they make themselves obvious.
When someone asks if I'm alone, I say something like "Yes! Isn't it great? I am free! I love it and worked hard to make it possible." Unless it's a man hitting on me, or person of questionable intent, in which case I say I'm meeting my partner shortly.
Yes as a solo woman traveling thru the middle east they couldn't comprehend that I wasn't married and didn't want to be married and would immediately start trying to set me up with someone or else they would appoint themselves my protector
One time I went to Florida and went to discovery cove to swim with a dolphin. When it came to a camera op with the dolphin, the trainer said "because you aren't with anyone, I'll make the dolphin go behind you". Everyone else with a family member got to hug the dolphin. I should've complained about that. It was a rare op for me because I really love  dolphins. Of course the dolphin did other poses with me but I just didn't think it was fair. 

I travel alone because none of my so called friends invited me anywhere and I got tired of them acting like that. I don't need their invite anymore.
I was recently in Seoul on a food tour, and when a stall owner asked me if I was on my own and I said yes, translated via my guide, she gave me a big thumbs up. Love that human, hope she's well.
In a hostel in SEA? Nobody bats an eye since they get solo backpackers every day.

Cruise line on the nile? I’ve never been on a cruise, but I’d assume they rarely rarely get solo travelers, so it’s more of a curiosity for them. Add on top that some cultures are just more nosy, and you have a bunch of awkward interactions.

But yeah you won’t see them ever again, and they’ll forget about you in no time, so it really doesn’t matter and you’re free to enjoy yourself however you like.
My friends and family are all busy working while I'm here enjoying life
If you see a Belgian with a funny mustache, you should probably get off at the next port. 😉
What baffles me is how people go on trips with multiple friends or family. Planning a trip like that feels like herding cats for me. And no one I know is ever prepared financially or mentally to just commit to dates, times, locations, etc. 

So if I want to go on that big adventure, I'm gonna have to do it myself.
This happens every time I do anything solo.

People stare at me with a pitiful look, but mostly they ask why I'm at a baseball game or concert or eating or movie alone. 

I don't think it happens to my husband.
There have been quite a few times where I got ignored at a nicer restaurant because they assume the rest of my party must be coming along shortly.

Nope, just me, solo bolo.
Tell them you're a travel writer evaluating the cruise.
Yes - some people from family-oriented cultures have a hard time understanding more solitary lifestyles. One way to look at it is you're providing a role model / expanding the perspectives of people who perhaps might want to give it a try.
It's the same when I visited the Philippines. They couldn't believe that I was island hopping on my own. It's a country where regular activities like going to the gym or coffee is a group activity.
[deleted]
Did a cruise to Alaska solo and got similar questions. It’s been a few years and am thinking about doing another. I love making my own schedule.
Ahh sorry to hear that. It’s so annoying and awkward. But yes says a lot more about the people asking. It sounds like you do you though and are too comfortable in your own skin and doing your own thing to let it bother you. 

Kinda feels unnecessary from people though. I wonder what they expect you to say? What would satisfy them? And why do they care? So many questions!

I’d say I have it more here in the UK if ever I go out to something alone like eat at a restaurant. People be strange!
I am planning a solo Nile River cruise for later this year. Any tips or recommendations?
I have a name that in American exported culture is often paired with a male name. Think Bonnie and Clyde.  

I was in a third world country traveling throughout the towns on my own and the local women would say, “Allo, Bonnie, where Clyde?”   And I would tell them, no Clyde.  Then they would ask about children.  “No children”.  

Then 1-2 women with the best English would slide close and whisper some version of “is it wonderful?”  

This would always make my at times lonely heart melt and re-remember how very lucky I am. 

Is it wonderful?

It is!
I love traveling by myself but as a woman for safety I always tell ppl I’m meeting up w my friends later or in wherever I’m on my way to even when I’m not 🙃
I’m a frequent solo traveler to Latin America. I also hold my own pretty well in Spanish. I often get asked by the locals if I’m really traveling on my own. Some cultures are especially group focused and they can’t imagine traveling alone.
I was solo traveling in Greece and when I was in Santorini specifically people were in shock when I said I was alone, I guess because it’s such a famously romantic destination.
I got used to going out to eat alone while traveling for work and started doing it while home because I frankly just needed some time away from my house for family reasons. My server asked me why I was eating alone and I explained that I just wanted some time alone to enjoy a beer and some wings, sometimes it’s nice to get away by yourself. He responded, “Aww, I feel sorry for you.” I said “Awww I feel sorry for you too, not knowing how to enjoy your own company.” He didn’t make any more small talk after that 😆
All the time. Mostly, middle-aged women seem to have an issue with it. Also, I look way younger than my actual age. That aggravates the issue.

I would say it depends on the area as well.

But one time, I remember that a group of us along with the hostel owners went to have lunch at the hostel owner's sister's home. Everyone in the group was travelling solo but when she heard that I was travelling solo as well, she was visibly shocked. And wouldn't stop exclaiming how I'm doing it. Kind of awkward when the rest got no reaction.

Have to say that everyone else was a foreigner or a guy but me. So maybe they don't want local girls to experience the bliss of travelling solo. Lol.
It really IS sad how many people don’t enjoy their own company. As a single woman, I’ve come across so many other single women who miss out on many of life’s experiences because they don’t want to do them alone. They think eating at restaurants by yourself is sad. No, I like having a great meal and a good book. And yes, I get the “You went all by yourself?”
Easy, tell them “the war took them from me” and slowly walk away as you light a cigarette and hold a manhattan.
Oh ugh ok I’m going to get downvoted into oblivion but please everyone be careful with bragging about being alone on a trip! You never know who is asking or why.
I live in South Korea, where collectivism culture runs strong. Everybody does everything together. Eating solo at a restaurant is pretty unusual here, except for some kinds of fast food. I eat anywhere I want by myself though. I'll get stares. Sometimes people will ask where I went for lunch, and will express pity that I ate alone. I'm like, what? I didn't have to talk to anybody for a whole hour, it was great!
It's sad that people are so incapable of doing things on their own, they can't even conceive the idea of others who can.
There’s a restaurant near me that has posted rules - one of which is if the host or server asks “Just one?” you get a free meal. ✌🏻
I once got held up in customs going to another country because the customs agent said it was weird and suspicious that I'd be traveling alone. They held me up for about 3 hours looking through my suitcase and phone trying to find "evidence". They finally let me in and stamped my passport, but the agent still said, "something is still not right."
I lived in Egypt for 11 years. It is a very family oriented country.  It's hard for them to imagine doing anything without family or at least a good friend who is like family to you.
I did a Holy Land Cruise that include overnight in Cairo and Jerusalem if you didn’t mind the price.  This was in 2011, six months after the “Arab Spring.”

I worked in Cruise Sales at the time.  We had a winter itinerary that was supposed to run through the Spring.

When the People of Tunisia overthrew their Government in April 2011, it carried over to Egypt, and then Lebanon.

The cruise line cancelled all but the first three of those sailing.  No one was booking them or were canceling.

I decided to go.  I said, “If I don’t go now, I may never again have a chance.”

We stayed at a hotel right across the street from the Pyramids.

We had a nice buffet dinner on a paddle boat on the Nile.

I spoke with a woman who said she worked for the Egyptian Travel Office and wanted to make sure I was having a good time.

I have video of the belly dancing!

First time in the Mediterranean Sea, but not the last.

I was by myself and met a lot of amazing people.
Yep. Traveled a lot alone which is why I generally don’t eat in restaurants without a counter or bar. One of the big reasons I’m afraid to go on a cruise.
Normally when I travel in cities and stay in hostels, I meet many other solo travelers, so no one is shocked. Do you think it had to do with your location or the type of trip?
Sometimes people are surprised, but It's more out of admiration than pity or judgment. 

I love solo traveling or traveling with a small group (2-6 people max).
"You here alone? Why? No partner?"
I would freak out and lie. I am so afraid of bad things happening to me... I would be paranoid they setting me up for a kidnapping.
Solo traveling is such a unique experience, isn't it? I've had similar moments on my adventures. If you're ever looking to connect with fellow solo travelers who embrace independence and love exploring, check out [Solopackers.com](http://Solopackers.com)  It's a great way to find like-minded companions and make the most of your solo journeys. Enjoy your cruise on the Nile! 
To be fair a cruise wouldn’t be my first choice of solo traveling
I think a cruise might attract more of those types. Hostels & backpacking people expect it more.
I would just say they’re all dead and chuckle.
Plot twist: OP is 5 


/s
I've never done a cruise, but it seems more like an extended party than actual traveling.
Is your Nile cruise luxurious? I don't know much about Nile cruises but the ones I always see advertised seem to be at the higher end and those types of cruises usually have high single supplements so naturally they tend to attract a lot of couples. Could be one of the reasons your fellow travellers are surprised to see a solo. 
Cruise through the Nile eh? Start killing them one by one…
Life got soooo much better when I realized how much I absolutely love having the day to myself
I am a late 30s single woman and It's hilarious to watch some people try to compute me traveling on my own!

I was in Singapore years ago, and decided to spend a weekend lazing in a resort in Batam Indonesia across the strait. When I arrived at the hotel, first I have an unusual first name that's very gender neutral, so when checking me in they were expecting a man! I show up and they're like oh... Is your husband the one who reserved? No.. that's me! And they were like, and no husband?!?! *Tons of fast paced chatter ensues* then after the shock wears off, they take me to my room. They couldn't figure out why I was alone! 

Too funny 🤣
Lol. I remember I went white water rafting solo once, and when I told the guide I was solo, they looked dumbfounded. Some people always need company, must be sad to have 75 years of life and not be able to sit with your own thoughts for a few days at a time here and there
I traveled to Egypt in 2013 by myself. Although I did have a friend of a friend, who lives in Egypt, to take me places & he did walk with me to certain things and in certain areas, I did do some tours alone, did the cruise up the Nile alone, and stayed at a resort in Hurghada alone. I got mostly the same questions when eating alone, at the beach alone, going on some of the tours alone etc. and really only by staff. Didn’t bother me much. I loved traveling through Egypt without friends or family to have to cater to (actually I feel this way about almost all traveling lol) I got to do and see everything I had planned & wanted to in the time I had there. I was able to take my time walking through everything & it was really a peaceful trip for me. People should embrace solo travel more and enjoy it! 

I hope you enjoy your cruise otherwise. One of my favorite memories was sitting on the top deck lounge chairs on my boat at sunset, drinking fresh mango juice, and reading a book.
In another 2 months I'm going to go on an 18-day trip with my father. He used to take my mother but she passed away. He wants to travel even though he's a borderline ogre but I can put up with that to see interesting places that I will absolutely without certainty never go to again. But people wonder why a person my age is hanging out with a bunch of silver sneakers. I just tell them I'm retired and I bet well in the stock market which infuriates everybody. I'm actually borderline Insolvent but I have enough money to squeak by.
Just got back from a month in Portugal. Whenever I was asked “only for one?”  I would reply “yes I’m enough!”
I accidentally travelled to a city that was known as a honeymoon spot. Was constantly asked where my husband was.
Solo travel is godly
This sub is so weird these days. It’s the same topics constantly being posted. I’m lonely when solo travelling. How do I deal with a trip ending. Why don’t those filthy normies understand solo travel.
“My wife and 5 year old daughter were kidnapped and murdered by a deranged psychopath that escaped from Broadmoor Hospital, a high security psychiatric facility in Crowthorne, England; I’ve been tracking rumors of his whereabouts for over 3 years now, and I have reason to believe he is either on this very boat or will soon be on this boat. 

This isn’t a pleasure cruise for me. When I find him, and I will find him, well…I’ve probably said too much already.”
I usually mutter something about waiting for warrants to expire.
I must look like a loner because I rarely get asked why I’m on my own, maybe occasionally at music festivals and gigs but never when I’m travelling.
Yeah it happened to me a few times but I just said something random after a while to make conversation, but people look like they've seen a ghost. 

But on the other hand I met some people in groups who happened to of done a few solo trips themselves and gave me a few suggestions.

Or maybe we are just built different!
I (50F)cruise solo a lot but not outside Caribbean and Central America thus far. 

One cruise I got it constantly as in it was odd. All the others people ask and then say they’re jealous, etc.
I feel like even if they were genuinely curious that's just rude to ask someone that
It really depends on which region of the planet you're visiting. In many parts of the world solo travellers are commonplace. Other parts of the world not so much.

I enjoy travelling alone and actually want to travel by myself. That would be my answer to anyone !
Yes, all the time. Now that there’s more solo travelers you can book a single room on a group tour -or- a single cabin on a ship, and have agreeable part time company or not.
Prefer traveling solo, except for the single supplement. 
The liberty to do what you want, when and where is a big plus.
I had the same when I went solo to Easter Island. No one there could believe that I would fly all that way to a remote island alone. One of my most memorable trips.
As a solo female traveller I feel safer saying that my husband is staying back at the hotel etc, it also stops the questions, and prevents any impressions that you may be available for hitting on or an easier target. Overly cautious depending on the area, but it's something I do IRL as well when I don't want the hassle. Sad but true
Not on a cruise, but I visited an all-inclusive resort and my travel companion got sick. I had to go to dinner by myself and I was the only table for 1. The staff were kind but I could tell they felt bad for me. I love solo time, it's such fun to people watch and move at exactly your own pace.
Every trip. Although people are just generally curious. Most females who inquire are impressed by my independence. And usually after my solo status is established, the conversation flows into interesting subjects back and forth. I am a 65 y/o female 
When someone blurts out “ where’s your family?” I answer “home. Where they belong”.
Yes, usually I get it when I hike by myself (which is often, 99% of the time). I’m a young-ish female on the petite side so people are always like “aren’t you afraid??? You’re going alone????” Like yeah, I am, and I’m content as hell about it. 

Solo traveling to Iceland next month and though I’m worried about feeling isolated, I am coming around to the idea of feeling liberated.
Hi! Do you mind sending me the company you’re using and how you like them? I’m planning a trip back to Egypt so I can do a Nile cruise
I went on an African safari solo and got similar questions from other people in the group. 
The worst part: our tour guide hit on me (I am female). He wasn’t aggressive or anything but made sexual jokes like he can come to my room and give me an “African massage” wink wink. That kind of thing. I said a firm no but after since he didn’t stop, I had to tell him that he is making me uncomfortable and he needs to stop the jokes. He did stop. He said something about African hospitality 😀. It was annoying but it was also pretty clear that he was harmless.
I'm a solo traveller 58F. And naturally abrasive. If someone asks in inappropriate question I bat it back by saying Why are you asking me that ? What concern is it to you ? Do you have a problem with it ? I find if I throw all 3 questions at them firmly in rapid succession it shuts them down pretty quick. It also scores me the reputation of being a cranky old bat best avoided and I'm fine with that. If I want to interact with anyone they will get to see the "nice" me. Just don't be a doormat to other people's demanding intrusiveness.
Always
i had this recently. i was talking about my upcoming solotrip and i was told i need to make new friends or i need friends who like travelling (i dont remember which but that was the effect) and that no one can afford travel right now (i do not necessarily agree with this second part). 

i did agree partly that i need friends who i could travel with. and added on that even if i did have those friends, id still solo travel because i enjoy it so much. i didnt like how my first reaction was to agree though.
For a long time, my parents couldn't understand that I could have fun traveling alone. They used to insist that I should travel with a significant other or friends because it's more fun.
I've done plenty of solo trips and no one has ever asked me that!
River cruises are the worst for this — I hate the enforced socializing and how everyone thinks interrogation passes for conversation. Never again.
I recently took a cruise to Alaska my second on Holland America. I must admit I don’t mind traveling solo however, it was very awkward and people were always asking me where my wife’s or it was girlfriend or family was. I simply said my family didn’t like Alaska and they didn’t like cruise ships and I tried to MoveOn. It was extremely awkward. I kept thinking why do they care? I wanted to say I’m gay and I do not have a partner yes and I wanted to take a cruise.
They were too scared to come with!
I felt I was really close to being denied entry to a slightly off the beaten tourist path country where they clearly don't get a lot of solo people, especially women I'm guessing. She asked me multiple times what I was doing there and was in disbelief that I was solo. I started getting get legitimately worried she wasn't going to stamp my passport and let me on my way.
Yes and a cruise is besides wellness and AI resorts THE travel style for couples and families and the worst for a solo trip. Did a cruise once, never ever again. It was boring and I also encountered situations like you described it.
When people get too nosey, I just tell them, I'm meeting my family in country at the end of my trip.  Usually shuts them up.
Sure it's normal for people to want to have sex, so they ask in a indirect way to know if I am taken. I think it's a polite way to do it.
ive found that ppl ask me when solo travelling if im here w ppl… i usually never tell them i normally lie and say my family is back at the hotel and didnt want to do xyz w me. i always find as a gay queer person (female presenting) that people often see me being a solo travellers as a chance to hit on me/ pass their unsolicited judgement onto me. i grew up lying to survive basically so lying comes v easy to me. id recc j lying and saying something that shuts them the f up!
I'm traveling with a group of 8 now. We just finished a 7-day mediterranean cruise and are now in Ireland for a week.
On the cruise, we all broke into different sub-groups or went around solo. I loved the sushi restaurant on board and ate by myself 3 times. I got the same questions.  I also spent time in the cabin alone, just watching movies, and I played craps in the casino by myself and met a lot of new people. 
It's important to travel with people who are flexible and understand your need for "me" time!
Are you a woman? I never got asked once as a man. 

If you are, I would not be at all surprised if they were trying to figure out if you're approachable for some hanky panky.
I get it all the time, but would also add that the frequency and type of reaction depends on the country. Europeans do a lot of solo travel that they don’t seem to be all that reactionary when you’re solo traveling around their countries. I was also solo in Egypt earlier this year and got a lot of shocked reactions, but I also think that comes from the fact that they don’t get to do a lot of travel themselves bc of the costs, visa restrictions, etc. So yeah I would say this comes into consideration!
Next time respond ‘why don’t you and your family adopt me?‘. That either squelched their nosiness or leads to good convo and a fun evening 😎.
“They didn’t want anything to do with me after I was released, but as long as I keep taking the medication you are not in danger…” 

“Not many people feel safe around me…”

“Ever since the ‘incident’ they changed their minds and wouldn’t come”
I feel like this never happens to me and if it did, I’d be like “yup I’m traveling alone.” Like what is there to be offended about if you feel secure about traveling alone?
This happens to me as well. I get the feeling that people are uncomfortable or not used to the thought of someone being traveling alone so they don’t know how to address it. Those questions get tiring quick.
being alone doesnt mean your lonely,i do it a lot sometimes i prefer to be alone so i have time for my thoughts and for myself it is peaceful
My mom won’t even go to eat alone.  I used to love going out to eat brunch by myself.  No small talk, no bother, just me, a book and my eggs Benedict, I couldn’t ask for more. It was so peaceful.
I can't tolerate people who don't know how to hang out and spend time with themselves.

You need to be on good terms with yourself first before making friends, getting into relationships, etc.
"they are enjoying their time without me and I'm enjoying my time without them"
I solo traveled around the US in my car for 3 years with my dog. If I had a dollar for everyone who asked me “are you really alone?” Made me feel like I was doing something wrong by eating alone even though I enjoy my own company. I had one guy ask me if I had “lost someone” or if I was lost. I just rolled my eyes at him.
Don't worry what people think or say, just enjoy your cruise and make the most of it! 🩷
If I may ask - which cruise are you on and would you recommend it?
Egyptians are a highly family-oriented social culture, as are many others. In Vietnam for example, it's very common for people you've just met to ask you your marital/relationship status almost immediately. The idea of someone willingly travelling the world for leisure on their own is an alien concept for many of them. Ever notice you rarely see Italians in hostels?
“I ate them.”
A waiter said to me “I’ve never seen someone diner by themselves here before!” I was like… okay? Great?
People are mean. They think they care, but it’s nosy. It takes guts to solo travel and being comfortable with yourself. You should be complemented on this.
my solo traveling experience was only nice because of how i made new friends both tourists and locals, If you’re in cairo and want to hangout send me message i can introduce you to my friends and show you my favorite part of the city
All the time, if I'm in Vegas, or Sydney, or Brazil, any place.  Usually followed up with a "You don't look like you're from around here".  If it's a single man hitting on me I say I'm not alone, if it's a friendly person I want to talk to more I say "Yeah, any parties tonight?" and if it's a friendly person I don't walk to talk to I say "Yeah I'm a fucking loser".
Are you the guy that posted on the galopagos thread?
Number one rule if you don't want  want any communication, use headphones.
Like everyone said here! Make up soemthing. I’ve said to someone before that my mate dropped out and I couldn’t get a refund so said f**k it and went on my own😂.
Usually on trips no but I get them from people in general friends and family. But interesting that they were like that on a cruise ship, when they should be minding their business after your responses hahaha
Funny
When I go on vacay solo, I wear a fake wedding ring so it doesn’t look like I’m “alone” but merely separated from a travel companion. It helps tremendously. I still engage with others but it keeps anyone from really encroaching on my space. Like, some of us PREFER to travel alone. Not having to consider anyone else’s feelings as you do the things you to to WHEN you want to, and at the pace you want, is true vacation.
Nobody comments on it to me, but I’m not the most approachable person. They probably assume I murdered my travel companions. 

I did a train trip along the Nile in the late ‘90s and they were a bit nutty about meals, like coming into our cabins and making us get out of bed and eat breakfast.
I once asked for a table for one and was asked by every waiter if I was ok and if the service was fine . Made me feel like the odd one out
good on ya 👏 
I mean I really enjoy the freedom of solo traveling, always meet people everywhere so it really was the best of both worlds for a lot of my trips. no drama travelling with family or friends or partners. 
I had this questioning a lot in other situations,
never been on cruise on my own before though, I can imagine it's quite intimidating esp to find a free seat avail at meal times?
it's usually the women who make these comments/judgements like it's their right to do so.... 
once i was backpacking in Vietnam, went on a day tour to countryside, met this vietnamese couple also on tour, and the wife asked me why I was alone. 
at first I thought she meant on this leg of my trip, but I realized quickly she meant "alone in life". 
I looked over at her husband and he's not an image I would like to have every night 
so it's ok 👍
I did a little boat tour in Buenos Aries and this woman asked me where are your friends, are you alone? I looked her dead in the eyes and said, does it look like I need somebody to hold my hand to take a trip? Then I put my hand on her leg and said, I don't, but sometimes it's nice to hold hands. Yes, that turned into a fun experience and several meetings.
I don’t tell people that I’m alone. I always say that my SO is back at the cabin or hotel. Some of these people could be eyeing you up to kidnap or rob you.
It’s not that I don’t enjoy my own company, but I would’ve ask u the same thing.
It’s just not a thing you see often, and my first reaction   is worrying
This is a very good strategy when hassled extensively - I've used it too as a last resort and it works like a charm.

(Same as when some people are intrusive about why I don't have kids - answer: can't have any. The silence that follows is deafening.)
No joke, my mother actually died a month before a cruise we’d planned last year to celebrate her 75th birthday (we knew she had cancer); and I was supposed to be sharing the cabin with her, as the only solo sibling. We still went on the cruise, at her insistence, and more than once I was asked about my “suite mate” since her name was still on the documents. Their faces when I said she died before the trip. 😟

(they did refund her fare, but it was so last-minute they couldn’t remove her name from everything; they did try though)
I did this as a young widow 6 months after actually losing my husband....then people really wouldn't leave me alone. 🙄
Yes!  Traumatize them back!
Yeah like OP I’m starting to think I might just say something to make it to shut it down. Mostly it’s fine but sometimes you just get tired of answering the same question over and over again. Saying I have no friends is good as well
Ha ha..I used the once. I booked an aisle seat and when I boarded a lady was sitting in my seat. Her friend , who was in the aisle behind me (woman was supposed to be next to her, middle seat) said her husband just died and she "needed" an aisle seat.

I said "so did mine, they are loading him in cargo now"
I just make up stories.  Traveling to Italy, advised that I was a private investigator following someone to see if they are cheating.  Told the people they are on this flight and don’t fuck up my cover😂.
work smarter not harder hahaha
but it sad she even had to resort to this just to shut people up
Are you female? I get the "so brave!" and chalk it up to being female. I'm not sure if men get it as much.
Honestly I don’t really get it. I know people love spending time on trips with others or don’t like the feeling of loneliness at times. I get lonely from time to time too

But is it really so terrifying or “brave” to do things on your own? Like we’re cavemen and going out alone means certain death?
Why are people wondering where you friends are on the train? It's perfectly normal to travel alone on a train.
Yeah! and it is so cool!

I didn’t get angry nor anything, I just found it funny because as you said I also don’t think about it too much.

If I feel like going to the cinema, restaurant whatever I just go.

But yeah, I normally get the same reactions, and I’m cool with it.
I live in the UK and when I was 18 I went to volunteer in Romania alone. So many people told me to be careful and stay safe... Thing is, Romania is one of the safest countries in the world, safer than the UK. No one tells me to be careful when I go to London alone. 🤣

Friends also got worried about me going to Spain alone this year. It was like they thought I'd get kidnapped. 😵‍💫
Twice I met by chance a young European woman with the same story. Seems each had travelled solo for a solid month hiking in Nepal. Both times I was like Wasn’t that risky?? How did you manage to safely carry money into the remote places??
Both answered with the same look, like WTF are you talking about, it was absolutely not a problem. So I decided to go (took my nephew along) and now I see.
On trains? There are tons of people travelling solo on trains, it's not rare at all so that's a weird question. You may just get somewhere to meet someone for example.
On trains? It's the one place where most people are on their own.
That's because it IS brave. A lot of things can happens, no matter what your age group is. Just make sure you have backup plans.
Haha not the OP but I never think of these things in the moment. Some great potential replies there!
On the Nile, I would 100% go with crocodiles got them or Tutankhamen's curse.
I have a friend who goes to bars solo when traveling and practices telling me most outlandish shit to rando men. She’s a little out there.
> or are in prison

They're in prison for throwing a man off a boat after he was asking too many questions.
EF Tours does trips with all solo travelers, if you want to try again.
Someone's intent might always be questionable, so (actually on my mom's advice) I often say I'm meeting someone, unless the context would make it blatantly obvious I'm not
Keep in mind, the suspicious person that doesn't need to know you're on your own _is_ the dolphin!!!  The trainer was just trying to keep you safe.  
Don’t know about nile cruising but any other cruise solo travelers are a common sight. NCL has even an extra space for solo travelers. The downside traveling solo on cruises is most of the time you have to book double rooms with a hefty supplement of 80-100%.
I did see solo people on Nile cruises but they were always "solo in a group." It's more likely for solo travelers in Egypt to go with a group as opposed to SEA or Europe, as it's thought to be more difficult to travel for solos. 

I know as a middle age woman who normally travels solo and just does group day trips now and then, that I will do groups for the Mideast, Africa, and India. I mean, I've done short stops of a few days in the Mideast or Africa by myself, but for longer trips it's just easier with a group. 

SEA and Europe and the Americas are pretty easy for me solo. Also Japan, Australia, New Zealand.
My cruise had a "solo traveler meetup" on the second day. It was cancelled as I was the only one who signed up. Never saw another solo traveler on the ship.
What a zinger!
By "funny" you mean "magnificent", no?


(/s)
I always travel (mostly cruise) alone. I’m currently on a trip with family, and I’ve gone from 1 to 7. SEVEN. Two are kids/teens, who half the time are feeling bad for some reason, and people are wandering off or trying to do their own thing…trying to get anywhere is hell. We’re blocking everyone’s path in busy stations trying to figure out where we’re going or find everyone…it’s a tremendously huge leap from living and traveling alone all the time to suddenly being in a group of 7.
The movies is the weirdest one, I don't know why that is considered a group thing, you're supposed to sit in silence in a room lol.
They also seat a solo in the most out of the way, back of the room table. I get assertive and point to one I want. 
Try to dine In restaurants with booths or outdoor seating; so no problem. Really, my major annoyance.
Of course this can happen with someone joining you, also.
It used to be difficult booking a solo tour cause they’d want a two persons booking. Online reserving, put an end to that.
Oh God I got this so much while I was staying at a hostel in Africa.

"Why aren't you staying longer than a week??"

I... have a job. How are you paying for this?
Plan what you wanna do beforehand.
Wanna see the temples? which ones?
Some cruises will offer different stops at different temples.

Read the reviews, if they are mostly great you know you will have fun.

See how many days you want to spend cruising, from where to where.

I think there’s not much else to think about!
Take antibiotics with you for giardia. You are almost guaranteed to get it unless you take your own food with, which is going to be extremely uncomfortable.
What country was this?
The secret is to really understand that nobody cares.

I remember the first time I went to the cinema by myself.
I was so afraid and trying to keep it cool while I was queuing.

That was almost 8 years ago.

Nowadays I don’t even think about it, just when people ask me and react surprised that I’m alone.

However, I don’t feel ashamed, nor should I, and when I notice that this idea seems alien to them, I actually feel proud that I’m able to be by myself while they apparently can’t.

If it is a game, I feel like I am “winning” if u know what I mean.
Definitely with the type of trip, at least in Europe, cruises are considered as a couple or family holiday only.
It is worth though, specially through the nile river, because you can relax by the pool, get some sun, and wait for the ship to get to that temple, and you go explore. very nice.
Norwegian has cruise lines with dedicated solo cabins with their own host. They plan events, dinners, etc. but also has their own little lounge. Easy for 100 single occupants to find _someone_ they vibe with.
I love cruising solo.  I got back a month ago from one and I met 8 other solos.  So I could be alone when I wanted, or dine with the others if I wanted.  Best of both worlds. Had a great time and I’m staying in touch with two of them.
A cruise was my first solo, on NCL which specializes in them. I loved it. I’m cruising to Alaska this month.
No party was on my cruise, the elderly couples went to bed after dinner.
😂😂😂😂😂😂😂
I am a man, but as someone has mentioned, people here are very family-oriented, and it must seem alien for them that I’m here alone.

They’re muslim, they also asked me if I have a GF, which I answered “no”.

If I were anywhere else I’d think they were into me, but yeah, they’re just muslim and I think having a wife is the equivalent for the westerners as having a House or a very nice car. 
Yeah I know, very chauvinistic.
I just say "kids aren't in the cards for us". They don't need to know that we picked the cards ourselves
😂😂😂😂 I'm the same way when people ask me why we don't have kids. "I can't have children". It makes it awkward and they stop pestering me
I always say “I forgot to have them” or “I’m allergic to kids”.  Both answers work wonderfully
Do you think it will work for me too? I'm a 23 year old guy
I’m sorry.  God bless.
I'm sorry for your loss. <3
Yuuuup! "Oh, when did he die? What did he die of? What KIND of cancer?" Not a conversation I want to have with a complete stranger on vacation!
Good reason to have a decent, very long book with you. Maybe two.
Yea… let’s spread trauma…
Lol. Did she move?
Yeah ... probably. I'm 56, so older at least ... so probably got it less than a younger female.

It was mostly women closer to my age who said it though... but yeah, they probably wouldn't have said it if I was a dude.
As a man, I get something more like ‘so fun!’ Instead of ‘so brave!’.
> Are you female? I get the "so brave!" and chalk it up to being female. I'm not sure if men get it as much.

I'm sure overall they don't, but anecdotally I'm a 5'6", shy, scrawny guy and I get it quite a bit too.
I'm sure females get it more often, but I get the so brave comment as a male too. Last time was flying to Taiwan while I was chatting up the stewardesses because we were all bored. (13 hour flight) kinda unexpected to hear from people who fly as a job that it was brave to solo travel but I took it as a compliment haha
I’m male and 30s. I get the “you’re so brave” “I could never do that” all the time.  I never really know what to reply to that but in my head I’m like “it’s not really brave, all I did was got on a plane and turned up at the accommodations I booked”
I get this a lot and, “Wow, I could never do that.” Who’s stopping you? I love solo traveling and looking into doing an Alaskan cruise solo. 
This made me chuckle 🤭. We must be Caveman surely


The brave comment is so so weird. Like how is buying an Air ticket, going to the Airport with your bags and jumping on a plane by yourself brave? The people who ask are very clueless to the joys of solo travels
For me it actually is about being brave because I have severe anxiety and tend to catastrophize etc. but it gets real weird if people ask me that who are seemingly mentally well? Why is it more out of the comfort zone to them vs. to me? I don't get it. Some people just never branch out, in any way I feel like. Always going with the flock, doing whatever the flock does.
It’s the obvious tourist look we have, usually reading a book in our native language. Looking at a map (I never look at the underground map cos I know where I’m going) in a foreign place I’m checking it a lot, Asking a local does this train go to x place. Looking worried. Even our voices/ accents show we’re not from the local place. And even our looks especially if your traveling an exotic place where even tho I’m brown I’m not going to pass as a local. Same with other places and ethnicities
There’s something so freeing about not needing someone else to sign on to an activity to go out and do it. Like the first time I went to the movies by myself, I felt so powerful. Just that realization that if you want to do something, you can just go and do it. Nobody else wants to see that movie? Friends are busy? You can still go do your thing and it’s amazing.
same! i’m actually really looking into doing a solo cruise
So does G Adventures, they don't charge single supplements unless you want your own room. I've used them twice and loved it.
> The downside traveling solo on cruises is most of the time you have to book double rooms with a hefty supplement of 80-100%.

It's not just on cruises, short of bunk beds type stuff (which frankly I can't do, if I travel solo, it's not to be with a bunch of strangers in my room thanks), every accommodation is this way, it's actually kind of a pain for budget
I cruise solo all the time, on various lines. I have another coming up. No one ever brings it up, I’ve found. There’s always the awkward “is anyone joining you” at dinner and then they take away the other silverware. But nothing else. Dunno about the Nile, though. Kind of curious about if, actually. Not really but kind of. I’m too much a fan of Agatha Christie to not check it out.
Of course, most magnificent! 
Interesting. I never thought of traveling cruises alone. I usually don’t enjoy cruises. Food for my thought
exactly!
One time they seated me in the very center of the restaurant and I felt the most conspicuous ever — I had just started traveling alone and was not used to it yet. I decided to fake some confidence, and enjoyed the hell out my meal while smiling at all the people staring at me like a circus sideshow lol
Canada!
Good to know
I couldn't relax at all on my Nile cruise as the vendors just tied themselves to the ship and were shouting and selling things the entire time.
*"Easy for 100 single occupants to find someone they vibe with."*  challenge accepted!
I am going on a solo cruise with friends in December, which seems a bit of a contradiction. But we all get our own cabins and though we do meet up and hang out a fair bit, not everyone does and not all the time. People text the group about where they are if it's in public and they're feeling sociable. But no one cares if you want to be a hermit for a few days or longer.
> They don't need to know that we picked the cards ourselves


Especially in the casino 😉
I'm just always honest I don't want kids because " they're expensive and poop on everything "
This trip, this trip was supposed to be our honeymoon. 

She/he wanted me to go for the both of us. 

I'd rather not talk about it.

Should work for any gender and age.
Say you're a widower
You know what was interesting? They couldn't stand me eating alone. Which frankly, I preferred because I didn't want to talk to anyone on my trip. I have learned to be a little crass and dramatic now in similar situations and actively try to weird people out so they leave me alone.
It’s good when people who ask intrusive questions get responses that make them reconsider asking intrusive questions the next time. They’re not actually being traumatized. They’re being made mildly uncomfortable, which is well deserved.
r/traumatizeThemBack
She did indeed.
\*women

Female is an adjective, using it as a noun for people is rude
Sometimes I have to admit, when it’s a man saying something like that I respond with “Yeah! They let us leave the house without an escort now, it’s wild!”
For some people flying or going on vacation somewhere a bit further (even when they're not alone) is something brave. Nothing wrong with that, of course.
Organized group trips are very fast-paced, have a high amount of road time and require you to get up very early every day. Not for everyone.
I looked into those. They look like fun, but are a bit too young for me. LOL!
Cruising alone is like traveling alone. You can do what you want, when you want. And you don’t have to plan or run around with suitcases through train stations and such. Just chill out. Drink, read, eat, swim…
In some countries they suspect solo travelers of being drug mules (especially when you are in a country for only a short amount of time).
Bruh.
In southern America, there should be "Spring Break" cruises with a younger audience and more party.
any tips on how to avoid that? do they come IN the ship?
Best of both worlds.
Until they grow up and then they are only expensive only more so
I was making a joke
I think their hearts are probably in the right place, wanting to stop you from feeling lonely etc. but hanging out with strangers (especially strangers who can't read the room to save their lives) is not exactly a cure for loneliness!
TIL, Apologies, English is not my first language so I never knew this 😅
Im a female, I refer to others in my species as female. It’s no rude, it’s a description, just like woman but more technical.
That’s brilliant lol. It’s so funny to me to be called brave for what, going places by myself? Getting to enjoy some peace and quiet? Is the world just terrifying to these people?
I'm almost 40, the regular groups (not 18-35) are usually folks in their 30s-70s!
They didn't come in but they would tie their boats to the ship and move along at your speed. 

I have no idea how to avoid them. I went to my cabin and opened my window, planning to relax. Within 30 seconds some guy on a boat pulled up right next to my window. Mind you, we were moving, he was tied on. And he started shouting nonstop at me "Hey lady! Hey lady! One dollar! You buy, one dollar, hey lady!" 

I closed the window and the curtain and he was still shouting at my window. After five minutes he left but I could still hear him shouting at others, just not directly in my window.
Yep! I think it could be hard in some groups but ours is really great at letting people be around others as much or as little as they want, without taking offense.
> Until they grow up

might still be pooping on stuff too if they are dealing with addiction.
Yeah no worries. It unfortunately has crept into common use lately with all those Andrew Tate-esque assholes becoming popular, so it can be hard to tell who does it maliciously and who just doesn't know
Also… “stewardesses” is outdated and sexist. Flight attendant is the proper term.
Oh, really? I guess I've only seen the 18-35 ones. I'll have to give it another look. 😊
Wow
That sounds awful but at the same time a tiny part of me does admire that persistence. Talk about going to any length to get a sale and it must have worked at some point because why would they keep doing it?
And cops OC
The history of what we today call flight attendants is so interesting. The first "steward" was a guy. And the word "steward" has its roots in the household. 

Lisa Wade: Before the Stewardess, the Steward: When Flight Attendants Were Men. In: The Society Pages. 27. Juli 2013

https://www.etymonline.com/word/steward#etymonline_v_22075
Well, they do it because even one sale is worth it, the economy is really, really awful there, it's just in shambles.

I do get why the vendors are so aggressive in sales. It's mostly just verbally aggressive, sometimes placing themselves in front of you, but as a middle-aged woman I never felt threatened. I just felt incredibly harassed and aggravated and exhausted. So I get where they're coming from and why but it made so that I'm glad I went to Egypt but never plan on returning.
Does anyone else find, when travelling, that they enjoy the simple, everyday things more than the tourist stuff you're "supposed" to be excited by?
I just wrapped up my first solo overseas trip - 2 weeks in London - and I think the best moment came one afternoon sitting outside a classic little London corner pub in Notting Hill with some mates from the hostel, having some pints and food on a lovely sunny afternoon. I just remember sitting there and thinking, *"Well this is just about as good as life gets, really."*

Seeing all the iconic London stuff was cool too, but I don't think I enjoyed any of it even half as much as something as simple as a sunny afternoon at the pub in lovely company.
Travel aside, this is what life is all about
Yes, I agree. I’m 71, male, and have been traveling alone for decades. Just being able to do “a lot of nothing” is a pleasure of solo traveling.
I can relate to this. Maybe part of it is because I often know in advance what "sights" I'll be seeing, but I don't know in advance what the day-to-day atmosphere will be like, and what small little moments might come along...sometimes it's those little things that are most unexpected and those unexpected moments can come with an extra sense of fulfillment.
I love it all tbh. Give me some crowded tourist attraction. Give me a quiet night with friends. Give me a chill coffee. I love it all
Yep. When I travel I have a three day rule; one day to do the ‘tourist’ stuff; one to just wander the streets and see what the locals do; rest day to chill like a local.
Yes!! My favorite part is grocery shopping
Absolutely yes I do!

Probably one of my favourite things to do in Italy is just sip a cappuccino in the morning and listen to the Italians talk and watch them as they go about their day.
This is my general MO when traveling especially when solo. My favorite parts of my last time in London was walking across the Thames on a footbridge in the late afternoon sun. Or catching a drag night at a Soho pub.

The regular “sights” are fine but rarely make it into my core travel memories.
Yes. I love going to a random little coffee shop for breakfast in a different country. Couldn’t imagine doing that in my hometown and being excited about it
I go to the same destination every year and it's mainly for one thing. To see the locals and maybe meet some new people. I've seen most of the tourist attractions already. Of course I enjoy the city very much too. My favourite thing to do is sit in a cafe, bar, restaurant and people watch and talk to other locals and tourists.
Absolutely 💯 
Traveling solo is greatest.
One can take their time stop and enjoy the little things. Not like ok don’t what’s next like fast train.
While I cannot claim that it was superior to the Acropolis, Olympia, or Meteora or would have wanted to skip any of them, finding a random craft brewery after ditching my tour group in Athens and sitting there sipping a surprisingly excellent IPA chatting brokenly with a very pleasant bartender, while watching normal Greek people do normal Greek things without gold olive leaf crowns or group leaders holding signs over their heads barking instructions in seven different languages made me feel extremely happy.

Also, Thailand.  While I definitely really liked Railay Beach, the times I just had a massive shit eating grin on my face as I tooled around was just scootering randomly around the greater Krabi area stopping when I saw something that looked interesting.  In one case, I followed arbitrary signs to some look out point/restaurant, and wound up doing miles of off roading (not only am I not very smart, I'd be ridiculously easy to rob) to find a gorgeous view, a tiny little restaurant, and the best freaking papaya salad I've had in my life, which is a pretty tall order.
I like a good mix. Towards the end of a whirlwind group tour around Egypt, which was awesome but tiring, I was feeling the "yet another temple" need to mix things up. So I skipped the morning visit to some nearby temples and went instead to a British-owned animal hospital charity. 

They mostly took care of large animals, horses and donkeys that were injured on the job, but they had lots of cats and dogs and, oddly, turtles. I made a donation and got a tour of the place, then talked to the Australian veterinarian who was there volunteering with the horses, then hung out with the cats, and then was so impressed that I added to my donation before leaving. 

On the ride back the cab driver said he needed to run a few errands on the way. I wasn't in a hurry so I was like, yeah sure, hoping I wasn't being kidnapped though we were in a populated area. It was definitely not a tourist area and I got a lot of curious stares and friendly waves and got to people watch locals going about their lives. 

This was the only time in Egypt, this morning, that no one was trying to sell me things by constantly shouting from a short distance. I walked around the neighborhood market for a bit and nobody tried to sell me a thing!
Yes & congrats on the sunny disposition, essential in any new (or old) venture regardless of type - great way to enjoy life .... I'd shared a pint w/ you ;)
Absolutely. I don't need to rush anywhere, I don't have a "to-do" list, like grocery shopping, cook, meal plan, work etc. Time is truly meaningless when you are on vacation. I'm able to simply enjoy the moment.
I try to do a mix of both.

Some touristic stuff, some daily stuff. I want to taste a bit of daily life feeling, what it is to live there.
I’m kinda the same way. Enjoying the company of people with no strings attached and away from the stresses of daily life is just something that doesn’t happen too often
Yes. I even find that true in the states. I'm originally out of a tourist town and I'd much rather see leaves in fall than anything that city has to offer.
I took my daughter to New York City in May and the first two days, I was hard pressed to keep up with her because there was so much she wanted to see. On day three, I told her to just go on and see things on her own I was not going to go. 
I went next door to the hotel to an Irish pub.   I had Irish beer and Irish food.  I agree with you, that's about as good as it gets.
Yes to a degree. I like a mix of both. The older I get, the more I repeat destinations and the less I have a need to run around to every little thing. I still do it - just less. And instead, I chill a lot more, enjoying the very simple pleasures.

I do that at home too, but less often than when abroad. Which is weird, come to think of it.
100% I have found that I know look forward to this equally and absolutely love chilling with a great drink and good food watching and taking it all in and having the good as it gets thoughts it is just absolutely heaven. Or just wandering a city and popping into shops or exploring a market/bazaar. Heaven! 

I was just in Uzbekistan last year and spent all day exploring Khiva ancient city which was amazing but then for dinner I got a restaurant table on a terrace overlooking the ancient city and sitting there watching the sunset and the glow of the lights on the city walls and buildings come alive while sipping on incredible Uzbek wine and eating fresh grilled lamb kabobs was just incredible
For myself, it’s a mix. I recently was in Denmark and would typically see one historical, cultural, or touristy site a day and wander the rest. I loved the hygge (comfort) aspect of Danish culture especially- almost any random coffee shop you could find a nook with lots of pillows. 

I was talking to a barista and told her that I was looking forward to visiting Mons Klint (sea cliffs by the Baltic south of Copenhagen). She told me she was a native Dane but had never been there. Point being- even at home, there are likely many places you can still discover. I’m a native New Yorker and I barely have seen much of Brooklyn or the Bronx. I make it a point to find new museums, restaurants, or activities to do in my city as often as possible, but like when traveling, my favorite things to do often are going back to the Metropolitan Museum of Art just to wander (it’s free for residents), randomly walking by the waterfront in downtown Manhattan, or hitting up a local coffee shop.
I do like to see important historical sites and museums, but otherwise, yes. I really just enjoy seeing how other people and cultures live. I don’t need to go zip lining or ride a giant Ferris wheel. Give me a local street food market, corner bar or coffee shop, and I’ll be loving it.
I've done solo travel for about 10 years now. At least one trip a year is solo. Probably my favorite memory was in Paris in 2018. It was February,  and I was in a wine bar there that I love. Their "bar" was double sided,  meaning people sat across from one another. I was across from a younger couple who were locals. The guy had lived in Hong Kong as a child, so spoke great English. His girlfriend also spoke well. We just sat there for maybe 2 hours discussing problems in the world and French politics. They say Feench like philosophical discussions,  and these two were very into it. It was just a great relaxed evening. Paris was just a background to what was going on.
Yes
Oh yeah! I could care less about pretty much any any sightseeing thing. If I really want to do it, I will, but I never go out of guilt. 

Eating, drinking, sitting around, and talking to locals is my heaven.
Absolutely. When I was in budapest specifically, I spent countless hours every day just... walking the city. Going into buildings. Walking behind dumpsters. Finding random coffee shops off the back alley roads. Something shoot it was just perfect. I'd kill to go back.
Absolutely. 

I've been fortunate enough to have travelled solo to about 6 or 7 countries over the last few years, and whilst I've done all the usual touristy stuff in each place I've been, I've never felt more at ease and at peace with myself than I did at two particular, relatively dull locations:

Sitting on a bench at the top of a small hill near Alexander Nevsky cathedral in Tallinn, and walking through a small wooded area near a lake in Trollhattan, Sweden.

There was nothing exciting, remarkable or massively thought provoking about either situation. It was just quiet, peaceful and a realization that we just need to stop and relax once in a while
Yes. Your best moments abroad are usually unplanned spontaneous interactions. Let yourself be open to those.
By god yes. I go to cities and have no interest in going to something if I have to queue for ages. I will go to the location and just sit outside relax and try to get a feeling for the place. If I want to know what the inside looks like it's on Google. If it truly is something I want to see then I will make the effort but mostly just lounging around the city and getting an idea of the vibe is my game plan
​“To my mind, the greatest reward and luxury of travel is to be able to experience everyday things as if for the first time, to be in a position in which almost nothing is so familiar it is taken for granted.” 

-Bill Bryson
Yup 37F, 99 countries. Often in hostels they wanna sell me tours and stuff. But I'm always just keen on the local cafes, maybe a bar, I always find a "mum and dad" in each city and often visit them, give gifts, given food and hugs in return. I have favorite houses I like to walk past rather than anything "touristy" and love to show them to other backpackers.
If anyone asks me what I loved most about Easter Island this year, it was the afternoons we sat and watched the sunset with a michelada and tacos. Having done the things all day, it felt so good to relax and unwind. And my favorite memory of New York is of the tapas bar next to my hotel, where they had dozens of wines by the glass. I spent every night there, resting my feet, watching the world go by, eating delicious foods and drinking myself to into bed. Best part of the day.
100%! I love being on the other side of the world just living a normal life. Gives me a sense of accomplishment and inner peace like nothing else.
I’m in Gümüşlük now and literally have not left the place I’ve rented to do anything toursisty or “sightseeing” related.
I’ve been just wandering, swimming with locals, eating at random places that are no-frills, taking in local music in places where I’m the only one who is english-speaking only and I have to say…it’s one of the best parts of my trip/journey yet.
I’m so over rushing from one place to the other to get the sight, snap my pic and move on.
I’ll leave that for the sightseeing crowd.
A sunny afternoon sitting at the pub in London is a glorious way to be.
Yes! To the point of actually not even going to see the famous touristy stuff much of the time. Being there and seeing it with your own eyes has surprisingly little value. For me, the most interesting thing about traveling is finding out how the locals live, meeting them, enjoying the quirks of the place, having personal adventures etc. Who cares about going through crowds and paying for overpriced shit?
I enjoy a good mix of all things related to traveling. That includes everyday things!
I agree!  Love just experiencing life in a different place!
Yes! I like to find good food. Other than that, I’m good with walking around and seeing things from the outside.
Sounds like you're made for London! That's like 90% of British culture 😉🍺
I stopped caring about most tourist things after travelling for a while. Most of them are nice, but they rarely mean much to me. What I did find was that they served as a nice underlying direction to experience everything else going on around me, especially when with people. 

The other thing is that travel takes that pressure out of everything when you let it. I can just be myself wherever, and I don't have that subconscious conformity that happens at home, no one expects anything of me and that's the most blissful feeling I can have. 

Growing to appreciate all of that is probably one of the few aspects of life that travelling actually did change for me.
I lived fairly close to Reddit lake (Banff) for a while and I find that’s the level of tourism I don’t want to be around. It’s not even a real experience in a way.
Yea very much so
Its one of the benefits of slower travel & focusing on experiences rather than just a list of sites to see
I love it all but there is something exciting about the simple act of visiting a supermarket in a different country
My favorite thing to do when traveling to other countries is to wander around . There is so much magic in the moment.
I travel with my kids but not other adults. Our favorite things are grocery store trips and exploring how food is different, trying new things etc. Exploring all the different parks and playgrounds. It’s the best
It's always awesome to have or know a local show you around.  Keeps you away from the tourist spots and can show you the hidden gems
Yep. Not solo, but one of my favorite moments in Japan was riding the cross-country train.
Yes definitely. I’m just returning from a month in Indonesia and because I’ve been before and seen all the tourist bits, I just went to a couple of my favourite spots and just spent days there doing nothing which was pure bliss. 

I always say to myself when travelling that I should do this more at home but I do tend to worry about looking like a loner in my home town.
Yes. I prefer going to grocery stores, taking public transport, walking around the city and visiting non-popular places to eat and drink way more than seeing another temple or church
i like going to grocery stores and malls just to see the different products and things that we don't have back home.  It's a nice break between attractions
Yes! Some of my favourite travel moments have been sitting at a cute coffee shop watching the world go by or relaxing in a park with a book.
Yes. This is the way to travel.  Went with some friends to Belgium and it was go, go, go and so many churches I don’t care if I ever set foot in one again. Finally skipped a day and spent eating a beautifully leisurely lunch people watching, shopped, walked around and got a foot massage. I felt like i got a much better feel for the place that way.  Met everyone for dinner.  Was my best day there (and I highly recommend Belgium)
When I went to Amsterdam I told everyone afterwards that truly the best thing I did the entire time I was there was just hang my legs over the canal and read a book or just pop in my headphones and listen to some music. Some said “that sounds like something you could do at home” and while technically true it’s just different in a place as scenic as that city. I could’ve avoided every museum, restaurant, coffee shop, hooker whatever the fuck my entire trip and just did what I mentioned above and been completely satisfied. (Edit, ok maybe not complete satisfied but  wouldn’t have been disappointed)

Did the same thing as you in but in Galway with some locals and that was probably the best time I had there. 

I completely agree with your take, and I understand why some wouldn’t and that’s fine but for me the simple things really hit home. Don’t get me wrong I do all the touristy stuff too, it’s almost always a great time but when reminiscing I more often remember chilling at a corner cafe over a crazy landmark.

Furthermore, I find it’s the little things that make me want to return to a city. I’ll rarely want to see a museum twice, or see a landmark again but I’ll always want to relive that nice little time I had one morning if that makes sense,
Yessir!
Yes! After years of traveling with family and being taken to places I didn't particularly like. I have started traveling on my own and actually doing stuff I do like. One being visiting the grocery store near my hotel, getting food (and also browse) and going back to my room and chill.
Personally, I love going somewhere, finding a nice place to sit and enjoying a pint (in the sun or in the cold). Life doesn’t get more simple than that.
This is growing on me the more I travel, especially after I started working remotely and had the chance to travel frequently and for a longer time.

After some time, temples, castles, museums and etc start mixing up in my mind. Nowadays, I usually pick a few "big things" and visit one a day, maybe less, and use the remaining time for things more low key.

In England, the big thing I enjoyed most was the Natural History Museum, but my favorite thing also ended up being the pubs. They are so cozy and the english people are really fun.
_Sometimes_

For me, there is something about going up the Eiffel Tower on the elevator and hearing that steam-punk clickity clack clickity clack of the chain drive. IN Cairo there is something about riding a camel from the Pyramid to the Sphinx. I think it's a combination of **bonding** as you did OP, and also **the experience as it relates to you personally** and I think both are equally valid.
Some of my best moments were at random cafes.
Oh yeah, absolutely. I'm glad I got to see some amazing things, but some of the happiest moments of my trips have been just hanging out with people. 

There was a night on the Camino de Santiago in the tiny village of O Cebreiro. Me and a few Aussies and a guy from Ireland were in a basement pub across from the church after mass. I don't remember any of what we talked about (and not because I was drunk lol), I only remember how much we laughed. We did the same thing at another pub in Santiago de Compostela the day we all finished walking--I do remember some of the conversations we had there!
The simple travel things I like to do:
1. Find an interesting neighborhood and just walk it.
2. Riding the local transit, people watching and looking at the scenery out the window.
3. Go to a local food store and finding eats that are not in my home country.
4. Strolling an open air market center.
5. Talk to a local about their lifestyle.
6. Train stations. I like the various quick food restaurants, shops, building architecture and the fast pace energy.
I enjoy both. In most of my travels I try to get a balance.
No thrill all chill
100%! I’m going to Edinburgh late fall all by myself, and I’m looking forward to doing a whole lot of nothing. I have one optional thing that I could do every day, nothing big (Christmas market, self-walking tour, Costco!), but other than that, walk, walk, explore, and chill out.
I like getting lost in foreign cities, reading a book in a café and listening to the murmur of others, and even sitting in public transportation (e.g., the top of a double decker bus in London or the bus in Paris).
Absolutely!  Nothing more fun than getting off of the touristy beaten path.
I love going to different countries and doing routine stuff, like going to the super market or the corner store/bodega, drug store etc I like to “live like the locals” for a few days. Take the metro/subway/train or public transportation etc While yes, Id do the touristy stuff as well, I like to view the country how the natives/locals do!
I totally agree!!  I'm identical!  I love travel, but the tourist, mus-see places interest me far less than a little cafe or pub on a side street
When I was in the UK, I had moments when i'd just walk at Hyde  Park alone till i reach kensington.. sometimes stops in between and do nothing. Just observe the people who are walking. Or enjoy the sun coz it was summer.
Yup, I came back from a 3 week solo travel in Europe, I visited many museums and stuff but what I remember (and will always remember) the most are the tintos de verano in Madrid with my mates from the hostel.
Def, for me that leaves more of an impression. But nothing like seeing the pyramids, that was the most impressive.
There is nothing I love more when traveling than sitting at an outdoor cafe with a coffee, people watching. Sure, I do it at home, too, but the change of scenery makes it more delightful. Even going to the grocery store is more fun.
My fav is sitting in the gardens with a picnic basket
It’s the small things - looking for snacks in a local supermarket, stumbling upon a cute coffee shop on a side street and spending a few hours there reading a book, an unexpected but heartwarming interaction with a local…
I began traveling in my late teens with older friends who had lived in various countries. Our trips were always focused on experiencing the culture and living like locals rather than engaging in typical tourist activities. Now at 57, I still embrace this approach to travel and wouldn’t want it any other way. When others express interest in traveling with me, I make it clear that I avoid touristy experiences. If you’re on board with that, then let’s plan a trip together! I also enjoy traveling solo.
More and more honestly
That’s why I can’t understand people that travel to a city for 1 or 2 days hit the popular sites and feel like they’ve seen everything.
Spent the 10 days at the beginning of August in the UK and I can wholeheartedly agree with this.
i'm happy just to have a little capsule where i can relax and not have responsibilities and i'm not ashamed to say it. been in bogota for a month and barely seen anything. just recovering from life. and i'm usually pretty disappointed when i do go see some 'special' sight anyways.
💯

Tourist attractions are fun depending what they are but nothing beats just chilling and being spontaneous!
Favourite part of the day for me, is visiting a different cafe each day first thing in the morning, having a long black or 2 & reading through stuff, people watching etc.
Yes! 
This is why I like 'slow travelling', so staying in each destination for around a week (where most travellers tend to stay just a couple days). Like this, I spend the first couple of days getting out the way all the main tourist sites + activities, and then the following few days I just kinda live more normally,  going to cafes to read/work, visiting bookstores etc. :)
i feel like half my trips are just walking the streets and going from coffee shop to coffee shop. then stop and get an ice cream, walk around or people watch in the park. it’s so simple but so interesting especially when you’re in a way different location than home
It's now my favorite thing. I always dreamed of living somewhere 2-4 weeks or more, having a favorite grocery, fave corner store, fave coffee shop, being among the people, seeing how life is lived there.

I was just in the French Riviera for the third time in three years and it allowed me to really not care about any tourism. I read and swam all day long, and did normal errands, and just walked around and met folks.
Dude, the everyday life things are one of my favourite parts. Even just going to a shopping mall and seeing how different it is compared to what I’m used to at home gives me a bit of that travel euphoria 😂

That first coffee in the morning at a cafe I’ve found, the late afternoon beer as the sun is going down. There’s a place for the more traditional tourist activities of course, but I don’t think I’d enjoy it as much without the daily life stuff too.
When I was in Bali, there were days when I would just chill at the hostel open space and I enjoyed it
tbf a sunny afternoon is quite rare in London, so I wouldn't discount it as a mondane experience
You’ve nailed it! Well done. This is exactly the best part about travelling. And all the people who complain about a city/location being overrated will never understand that. If someone judges a place based on their perception of its main sights, but don’t truly savour the experience of its normality, then they’ll never really experience that place in its totality. 

I’ve lived in places for years before checking out some of the main tourist attractions (usually grudgingly when a friend is visiting) and I’ve always been disappointed. Life is about the everyday, simple things!
I just like to go inhabit a place. A lot of times I will skip the well-known sites because there are so many photos and videos out there, I feel like I’ve seen them already. Other times I get to those places and there are so many tourists there, I can’t stand to be there.
Pulling up to a small shop and being amongst locals in a place far away where nobody knows you is an under recognized feeling
Absolutely. I guess many travelers share that sentiment too. There’s a certain charm in immersing yourself in the everyday life of a place rather than just hitting the major tourist attractions. Even better if the countries are relatively cheap, like those in [this list](https://www.reddit.com/r/ExpatFinanceTips/comments/1egjkz1/18_taxfree_or_lowcost_countries_where_you_can_get/).
Nothing more British than sitting in a pub with mates. 😁 Make sure you have a Greggs in the park too! Also, the street performers in London are really top tier (you should tip them if you watch/listen). I've found the best places to see them are Trafalgar Square, Leicester Square, and inside Covent Garden Market.

But yes, absolutely. Some of my favourite parts of going to Italy a few months ago was just sitting and listening to buskers, eating gelato, and watching people go about their day. Or eating gelato and looking at the scenery or rivers or canals in Venice. Or getting a shared meal in the hostel. Or listening to a free concert in a hostel bar. Travel is about people as much as it is about seeing things. 😁
I love doing this! 

Finding a park or a nice area by a river or a viewpoint & just chilling enjoying the weather if it’s good. 
Just watching as the city passes you by.

Hard to do at home because it’s usually cold & wet  so I always take advantage if I’m away somewhere warm 
One of my favourite things definitely & simple.
Of course. The tourist sights are just the excuse to travel.
Yes. Honestly what I enjoy the most is having all the time in the world to just walk around and take everything in. I love that
Yes. The historic stuff around Berlin was great to visit, but some of my best memories involve sitting on a deck chair by the river, drinking a beer and watching the world go by on a hot summer afternoon.
Enjoying simple things or the sweetness of doing "nothing" and just relax gives me much more than museums etc. I usually forgot this stuff the next day already. My future plans are to reduce the amount of culture and sightseeing a lot and focus on relaxing and party.
In my latest trip to Canberra, I enjoyed just walking, sometimes jogging around the city.
Love nothing more than being on holidays at a little cafe and just people watching for hours on end
My favourite thing to do on holiday is to go to residential neighborhoods and wander round looking at the houses.
Travel makes the simple things in life more noticeable and appreciated.
When I did my long trip in 2029, nothing better than sitting at a cafe, watching the world go by, and people watching.
I thought this was just me. I like to do the normal stuff locals would do, it's super interesting. I get to have a tiny insight into a different way of life. The tourist stuff can be cool, but it doesn't hit the same for me.
I enjoyed waffles infinitely more while on vacation than at home.
Yep, love just sitting and relaxing watching the world go by. Just got back from a holiday, and we just wandered around and just enjoyed life. Nothing better. Some people may see it as a waste of time and need to fill the holiday with an itinerary and just doing things. We just like to enjoy the place we are in, explore and sit, and watch. 
Nothing better.
Completely agree.    But I am not too surprised we are unusual.

I just arrived in Bangkok for a three month solo trip.   There are two tourist areas in Bangkok and I am not staying in either.

Where I got a condo on Airbnb is all locals.   I have not seen a single tourist.  Heck I was in Starbucks this morning and was the only white person in the restaurant.

Love it.   I get to see things I would not see in a tourist area.

Yesterday for example all the school aged kids were wearing scouting outfits.   I am talking kids in high school are all wearing either a cub scout outfit or a girl scout outfit.

I so wanted to take a photo but considering they were kids just did not think that was appropriate.

There were a group of about 20 all chatting after school in the subway station next to my condo and would have been a perfect photo.   This group all looked high school age.

I am so curious how this happened.  How did US scouting spread to Thailand?

Also, I have always thought of scouting as being a pretty Christian thing.  Where here it is almost all Buddhist.
Totally agree about your comments about London. It was also true for me in Dublin!
Spent two hours in a covered market in Rome, sitting at a table with sandwich, grapes and milk, watching the world go by and completely content and happy doing so.
Yes. Anywhere!
I enjoy both tbh, but yeah, I quite like just chilling at a local park or just walking around randomly. I think the "quiet/chill" time is as important as the "exciting/amazing" time.
Finally, someone has brought this topic up.

This is such a fundamental aspect about solotravel - the ability to meet people from people from totally cultures and life experiences to you in a setting that is unfamiliar.
Yes that’s me! After having travelled quite a bit I’d be damned if I pay for another church entrance for real tho there’s a church, a clock tower, a water body, and a broken fortress/castle everywhere. I’m not entering until I find them interesting and of enough cultural significance to actually book a guided tour / or I receive great feedback from multiple people!!! I quite enjoying taking it slow enjoying the local cuisine and getting lost.
I hate zero interest in tourist stuff or anything other people are visiting. I travel to pretend like I live where I'm going. My days consist of finding cafes, taking street photos, eating local food, and walking lots. That's it. I just explore, sit, eat, wander, read a book. I'll go on dates, fall in love temporarily, daydream about moving there, and then do it all again 6-12 months later.
Yes, the older I get. Going to the grocery store or sitting in a cafe for an hour is just as enjoyable as a landmark or activity. Just getting to slow down after the intensity of daily routine is a treat and I like to see how other people live, not just the tourist hot spots.
I'm in Florence on a 4 months solo travel trip. There's copius amounts of Art, Architecture and history. What have I enjoyed most so far? Getting drunk at the Irish pub with the Slovakian, Canadian, American, Chilean, French and Brazilian. Yes, art is cool. Yes, architecture is cool. Yes, history is cool. But, meeting new people, sharing life stories, talking shit.. now that's what life is about.
In my travels I have found that doing the things the locals do to be way more exciting than all the tourist traps. I will still go see some of the big sights, but finding a local restaurant or pub. A local band playing or just walking the streets away from the center of town have brought me more insight to a place, culture, people, and general vibe of a new city/country. I feel when you try your best to live like the people you appreciate it more.
That’s what it’s all about. Just did a week in Austin Texas from Canada and the sights and food was amazing. Most fun we had though was at a random bar that had trivia night. We played the whole evening at a bar with 12 people and had a blast. We still talk about it
Sitting at a bar or cafe, preferably outside, and just watching life wherever I am visiting is kind of my ideal
I get so excited to go to the local grocery stores! So many great foods in other countries. Then I’ll go picnic at a park, by myself. It’s great. My favourite things to do are grocery stores, walk around, look at old stuff, and eat at local bakeries and restaurants.
I could not relate more! I just came back from a 10 day solo trip to Almaty a few days back. I was working from there - the small things in life, taking a break and getting a coffee, sitting in a beautiful park and people watch. Just the usual everyday stuff felt so comforting and enjoyable than spending 25 out of 24 days “exploring” lol
Yup. I take 2 week trips because I just want to relax and experience what it’s like to live in a place. I’d sty longer if I could.
Absolutely, it’s one of my worst nightmares to be on one of those tourist trap slow walking tours, where they tell you hours of random facts you won’t remember and they take you to where 100 other tours are running, crowds ugh.
Yes!!!! 100%
Absolutely, I pretty much stopped doing the touristy stuff.
Love both honestly! I love seeing the sights but when people ask me what i want to do on a trip, I have to look stuff up because my default is just "be there and feel what it's like." Just waking up somewhere else and finding somewhere new to grab a coffee while the world goes about its day is rather magical.
I don't do the "musts" eg churches, art galleries.

Here are two of my "bests":

Sitting on a glider/porch swing thing, with a cat on my knee, and a beer, and a book.

Being met at the train station by the "hosts", him to take my suitcase, and her to take me on the back of her motorcycle.  Good thing I don't wear skirts or I'd have missed out!
Traveling solo, I love rambling through the neighborhoods and districts, and seeing what is around the next corner. Getting a beer or a light meal in whatever neighborhood I happen to be in when the need or mood hits me. I remember the little everyday thing more than I do the typical tourist things. I do see the tourist sites too, although I try to keep it down to about a third of my time. It’s exhausting to do regular tourism, so low key  everyday stuff is a relief.
Yeah those small moments in life make it all worth it, life, travel, whatever. I love those pockets of happiness
Yes. I enjoy shopping area where locals go to vs the tourists.
finally, someone who gets it!! i went to scotland in may and missed a lot of tourist experiences. however, i had some damn good food, saw some cool birds, explored a little castle, went to a goth bar, and tried a bunch of different foods and drinks… simple and awesome. people were like “but you didn’t see x, y, and z??” but tbh the little things excited me the most.
Using vending machines in Japan made me more excited than seeing the best temples...
I'm not sure if this counts, but I just went to the Bahamas on a cruise and my favorite was just swimming in the ocean 🥹 I'm from Michigan so the ocean is very different than our beaches. It was so blue and warm and gorgeous 💙 i didn't do any excursions, I just wanted to be in the water 🫶  it's not every day to me, but to coastal people it kind of is lol
Just walking around is great. Every corner is a brand new experience.
I’ve been given weird looks before for saying I went to a place and didn’t do any of the tourist stuff. I travel to drink nice wine, eat good food and look at people and the time I would spend seeing sights cuts into that. I never have fomo and there’s a reason for that.
100%
How lovely! I will be in Notting Hill soon as well, what pub did you enjoy? I'll happy accept all the recs!
Tourist stuff is just that - tourist stuff. Doing the simple things makes you feel more at home and part of the place you're in in my experience.

I'm almost four months into a year long SEA trip, been in Thailand for all of it minus a visa run to Kuala Lumpur. I've done tons of amazing touristy things like snorkelling in Koh Tao, the full moon party at Koh Phangan, cave kayaking in Phuket, and countless other things - sometimes I find myself enjoying life the most just people watching in a restaurant or sitting on the beach with an audiobook...

The tourist stuff loses steam eventually, and can burn you out a little - especially when it's a short trip and you're trying to cram a bunch of stuff in. The little things are really what life's about!
I agree.
It's pretty rare that I go see touristy stuff.
I usually just wander around without any plans.
Whenever i travel I always make sure i have a day blocked off with no plans. Usually this ends up me taking a random bus or train and having a quiet day in a surprise place. I know some people clown on tourists like this but the best part of traveling is seeing how other ppl live their lives and getting to kind of imagining being a local. Its so freeing to imagine another life for urself

Absolutely—and it almost always is when you are with a group of other people, even though you are a comfortable solo traveller.  One of my best memories is of staying at a hostel in Cairo when the manager organized a dance boat charter on the Nile one evening.  We all trooped off together, stopped at the local bottle shop for beer and wine, and spent a hilariously entertaining evening out on the river learning some dance steps from some of the Egyptians who were staying there.  Other memories include my driver hired for a week taking me out for Turkish coffee with some of his elderly cronies and hearing their life stories.
I'm totally with you. I'm not a fan of waiting in long lines to see some overpriced tourist attraction. I just like to roam around the city mostly walking but also public transportation. Going to the non tourist places where often I'm the only tourist. Just getting a feel of how the locals live is much more interesting than seeing some statues or buildings.
One of my best moments was sitting at an old, regular local cafe in Cairo at 3am, mint tea on the table, surrounded by uncles playing backgammon and Abdel Halim Hafez (old Arabic singer) playing in the background. Couldn't get any better than that.
Just spent almost 9 weeks travelling and the best memories were sitting in cafes/ restaurants in Italy and laying by the pool with my kids overlooking the most wonderful Tuscan landscape.
I’ve just turned 55 and started to get funds from my pension. I am working my last job, and will become a solo traveler until it stops being interesting. Kinda planning on travelling and attending various countries with cooking or culinary schools and hopefully learning to cook more authentic foods. Also keen a bit of the language and kinda delve into cultural immersion.
You usually find the best experiences off the beaten path. That being said I’m going to Paris and on a limited amount of days, I want to hit as much of the tourist/historical stuff that I can. Kind of depends on how much time you have in a place and also who you’re with
Yep, itinerary for any solo trip is 'go for coffee, sit around a bit. Then wander over to bar for a beer, sit around a bit more. Go for another coffee to offset the beer. Wander round town a bit. Stop for a beer, maybe a coffee or another beer afterward'. 

Weave in a few lesser known interesting places that aren't too touristy and you have a good trip.
I actually love just going to the grocery store when I travel, especially if it's a country I haven't visited before.
I’ve been to Paris, FR three times. 1st trip fully scheduled morning night, coach bus, etc.  2nd trip scheduled a few dinners and a few sights. 3rd trip, didn’t schedule anything, got lost and found a city.  I was Ok not scheduling anything because I did t need to check off the big sights, I had completed those before. The 3rd trip was relaxing and most enjoyable.
Ambience.
My favorite part of traveling too
In Japan, all I did was walk around, ride a bike, eat. It was wonderful. I didn’t go to the main touristy things. I stumbled upon beautiful shrines and temples naturally.
I love going to foreign grocery stores. I find it very interesting.
In the end the 'little' things are the big ones
I get snack FOMO. I love browsing the local supermarket and wondering "what does that taste like"?   
I often end up with a bag of snacks to eat my way through. I find it endlessly fascinating.
totally agree. just came back from my bkk trip. id hangout w ppl at the dispensary all day. during my last few days, i went to the touristy areas w one of them and realized how i've gotten what i needed from my trip as far as sightseeing goes. smoking up and just chilling was the way to go
This right here is why im gonna start traveling solo. I got roped into so many horrible family vacations where we're just rushing around to museums and not actually enjoying being in a new place


I never get to just chill out and enjoy things.
>sitting outside a classic little London corner pub in Notting Hill with some mates from the hostel, having some pints

This sounds still tourist stuff to me... Tourist stuff is not just visit a museum or join a guided tour, but also act like a stereotypical local believing that's how locals spend their days. Over time I reduced the visits to museums and historical buildings, and I spend most of the time just wandering around, go to markets, sit in a bar/café, or even queue in a post office to buy stamps, but I still find this very touristic because there is the sightseeing part, even if of people. Go somewhere and experience something local, like a pint in an old (?) pub in London, is still something every tourist does, so it is still tourist stuff, even if you don't need a ticket for it. For me what is important when I travel is enjoy my time, I don't care if doing tourist stuff or not (but I'm a tourist, so the stuff I do is still tourist stuff after all).
Sitting at a pub in a different country in the middle of the afternoon with hostel mates is also tourist stuff.
Couldn't agree more.
This. I hadn't travelled abroad in close to a decade and took a month and a half to travel in East Asia. I spent a lot of the time just taking nice walks, going to cute cafes and bars, enjoying good restaurants. When I came back I started doing the same much more often even if alone, don't know why I haven't been!
You said it!
I've been thinking seriously of going back to a cute town I know in Asia where there is exactly nothing to do. Just sit by the river, drink Beer Lao and read books. It kind of sounds like heaven. That "do nothing" thing is gold.
Hats off to you, my man.
It's so nice to go to a new place and find accommodations not in the middle of touristville but something usually called the old center or the old quarter where you're surrounded by locals doing everyday things. It's nice to get up and see what the locals are doing and just slot in with them.
Totally get that. The little, unplanned moments often end up being the most memorable. It’s those surprises that really make the experience special
Yes exactly -- the crowded tourist attractions are (usually) that way because it's something amazing worth seeing, but that doesn't take away from the quiet moments too. I honestly don't care as long as I'm getting to experience something new
I like this three day rule. I do the final two days but probably not enough of the tourist day.
I love this too! I want to see what snacks the locals eat, how much they pay for essentials (got a 30-egg carton for only $4 in Eswatini!!), etc.
Can’t step foot in a new country without having a look round the supermarket - It’s great fun seeing what different snacks they have in other countries.(Peach flavoured crisps in Shanghai are my all time favourite!)
A good supermarket and a good aquatics shop to look around for me is heaven. 
This, my first stop after checking into a hotel / hostel is almost always a convenience store.  I'll pick up a drink or snack of whatever is local, and just have a walk around to get to know the city.  Always my favorite part of any trip.
What's weird is I hate shopping in the UK, so much so I get online groceries, but in a new country I'm so intrigued by the small differences. 
Same!
Mine was sip the aperol in the evening and just watch italians go about their life. Beautiful
I heard from an Italian drinking a cappuccino in the morning is sacrilege.
Ahh. You just took me back to Edinburgh. It was raining so hard (obviously lol) it was my first morning there. I wandered into a little breakfast spot on the corner and from it you could see a beautiful cathedral and park next to it. I live for those moments more than anything.
Riding around SEA to random places is a pleasure because there's so little chance of being robbed.


I love it. 
As a New Yorker, I’m happy that you enjoyed it here! I find this funny though because I personally don’t drink beer, and so I’ve never wandered into a pub by myself in any of the 5 boroughs :)
Travel to me is just about getting lost in the streets of places you've never been and hoping to find a quaint little cafe in a beautiful place, somewhere you are unknown, just sitting outside enjoying the weather and the Hustle and bustle around you
Or heck, just sitting in a swimming pool in Iceland, alone, listening to people chat around me and politely ignore me. Just relaxed and chill and happy.
Time traveller?
You sound like a romantic, I love it.
Yeah of course it is, but the point is that, at that particular moment, it didn't feel like it.
I’ve had the privilege of traveling to lot of places. But couple of favorite moments involve hanging out with people I just met. I did a group tour to South America and met some lovely people on that tour. One of our last nights we just stayed up playing card games and laughing and talking.
100%. Day one or two of a new city I love to look up a place that seems like I can walk there in an hour or two, and make it my mission to trek over while following my nose to check out cool shit I see along the way. Half the time I won’t even get to the cafe/bar/restaurant I planned on going to because I found another interesting spot to get some food or a drink at that I wouldn’t have found if I hadn’t just made the walk the activity of the day.
That sounds awesome to me! Do it! And enjoy.
Luang Prabhang?
Doooo it
Luang Prabang, and Laos in general, were my favourite places in S E Asia for doing very little. That was 12 years ago, so I imagine it's changed since, but hopefully not too much
La dolce far niete
[deleted]
I remember on one of my first solo trips to Thailand I laid in a hammock and read a 600 page book in two sittings. I need to get back to that. Things were simpler without cell phones, socials, or even google maps. Just a guidebook and an openness to follow my feet.
Thank you very much, my friend.
This is why I don't like planning loads of tours and visits when I'm traveling. I like being able to be spontaneous, if I see an interesting pub or cafe then I can pop right in. Every time I've done that, it's been a great experience, but when I carry on past and think that I'll go back the next day, I never find it again.

The best nights out are almost always the spontaneous unplanned ones, when you happen to bump into a pal at the shops and decide to go for a quick pint.
Me too. I love the entire experience and find the tourist attractions really important to my satisfaction with travel. I don’t want to go to a new place and only stroll around like a local and miss seeing the most historically important things. But sprinkle in some relaxing brunches and coffee dates so you don’t get burnt out and that’s a perfect trip
Yeah. I used to transit through Tokyo regularly from Australia to Scandinavia over the pole, and then back again, and always had at least a week’s stopover in ‘Tokyo’ each way. It took me three trips before I got to see the Imperial Palace - which was #1 on my list - because I was so distracted by everyday life that I could see from the train and would just get off the train and wander around soaking in ‘Japaneseness’. I did find some unexpected tourist attractions that way, too, though.
I find foreign supermarkets absolutely fascinating and spend hours in there.
I love a foreign supermarket 😂 

Depending on when I land usually the first place I stop for drinks & snacks. 

I love seeing local snacks and what might be normal to the locals but new & interesting to me
Kebab Doritos in Yerevan 🥰
Did you mean aquatics or antiques?
I'm Italian and I give you official permission to drink cappuccino whenever you want
The morning is when you're supposed to drink cappuccino. Ordering one after noon is when it's considered "wrong".
Edinburgh is so aesthetic in the rain 
What's the name of the breakfast place?
Oh yeah, the most unsafe thing I was doing for Thailand was being on the scooter at all, and I did take a private class.

But at the same time, some random "cool stuff this way" signs pointing to a dirt road and I'm like "No problemo!!!" which seems like what I said in reference to something else where I said I'm book smart but have zero common sense.  But it usually pays off.
I was having a significant knee problem when we were there.  I twisted my knee just a few days before we left on our trip so it really put a damper on it for me. I didn't want to hold my daughter up, she had three pages of things that she wanted to see and after 2 days, we were fairly comfortable with using Uber and getting around and I felt like she was safe going by herself.  (She's 41).  So for me to just go sit in an Irish pub and have beer and have food, it was very relaxing and I liked it.  

My daughter did the same thing only she didn't have beer, she had a latte.   And she didn't go to an Irish pub she went to the Seinfeld Cafe wherever that is. 

I am surprised it has taken me so long to go to New York City, it was absolutely wonderful.
[deleted]
Luang Prabhang indeed! Ok there is a waterfall and a pretty temple, but that's about it. Other than that, it's the river and the books. And I do love it.
I love this.
I can't say how changed Luang Prabang is. It's a bit heavy on tourists, but really not that bad. Vang Vieng on the other hand is different. It's not a place I would go back to willingly. Years back it was apparently a really good time. There just isn't anything of value there for me. I'm also not a 20 year old backpacker.
you and I should be friends. That sounds like a heavenly day.

I have a very strong memory of a day in Phuket. I walked out of my hotel and randomly started following the road. I just meandered for a long while. I passed a market by a park with a pool and asked some kids in school uniforms what I should eat. I have no idea what it was, but it was really good. Grilled some-kind-of-meat and fried chicken skin. I kept walking. I came to a glorious park on the water. I felt like I was walking south. I watched some people. I read my book. I drank a litre of water and ate some kind of fruit. I walked around the park for a couple of hours watching boats and the tide rise and fall. I started walking home. Passed another market and got a bag of fruit. Walked. Walked. It was hot. I stopped and had a lemon drink. Suddenly I was back in the old town and made my way to dinner.

What a wonderful day.
Me too! I just got back from a month in the Netherlands, and going to Albert Heijn was often my favourite part of the day. Ended up bringing 2 bags of fun Dutch treats home with me.
It’s such a big part of the fun, getting at least some idea of what regular people do going about their day. I love when countries have  their own snacks and biscuits and things, and it’s not just the same old stuff everywhere. You can get a Coca Cola just about anywhere, but where’s the fun in that? 

I always thought I was a bit weird for doing this (and my dad, he does this too, lol) but nope - turns out there’s a few of us out there getting excited over new snacks and soft drinks. 😄
Goodmix chocolate bars in Yerevan! ❤️ OMG those were nice chocolate bars…
Aquatics, I keep fish so it's seeing the hobby and how it's done. And surprising as it may seem there can be a lot of difference including stuff like really cool fish I'd have never seen for sale back home. 
Ohhh ok. Must have got lost in translation. Appreciate it.
Don’t remember the name but it’s by The Meadows park
I’m sorry you injured yourself, but I’m glad you were at least able to find a place to relax! Also, I used to pass by the diner shown in Seinfeld when commuting to Columbia for grad school, though for some reason I never ate there :). (Maybe because there was a fantastic and relatively affordable Korean place closer to campus). I actually really miss diners as I grew up going to them with my family… some thankfully are still around in Manhattan and Long Island, but not as many as I remember.
The best. I can’t wait to travel again. I’ve noticed the older I’ve gotten the more shy I have become. I’ll have to start being outgoing again.
LP is incredible but the best 'do nothing' place I found in Laos was in the 4,000 islands. Wake up, eat, read something, eat, beer, float in a tube on the river (slow style- nothing like the old Vang Vien days), read, more beer, more floating......
I did n-o-t-h-i-n-g.   I was living in SE Asia so didn’t feel the need to do some of the check the box activities.  It was lovely.  Still thinking of it.
The slow life in Laos is fantastic
looks lovely, small town in between rolling hills. Bookmarked for future, thanks!
[deleted]
I'm just so less interested now in "seeing the sights" as far as lining up to see some monument. I don't really line up for stuff. Anything that good isn't going to be enjoyable as you get herded in like cattle. I want to be able to wander in at my own pace and experience it my way. These days that means going to places no one has heard of, going to popular places off season, taking more pleasure in small random things. The crowds of selfie-takers ruin it for me.
Oh I get so excited 😂😂 especially when it’s somewhere completely new.

I love finding the local specialities and what they consider just to be a normal thing you eat daily.

When I went to Prague with my Czech bf he was quite excited to have someone to introduce all the local food too as well so it was good to have a local perspective on things as he would know things that we wouldn’t and not just seeing what I find in the supermarket as well. 

Definitely one of my favourite things even though it’s so simple 😂
Oh okay! I for sure thought you meant antiques but I totally know what you mean about seeing/trying out your hobby in other cultures
I want to ask you, how do you manage to balance fish keeping with solo traveling?
The first day we were there, when we were walking over to see the vessel and the highline, we stopped at the Skylight Diner and ate.  Oh my, we loved it. We wanted to go back again but we didn't make it because there was just so much to see and do.
Tell me more about these 4000 islands! Where did you go? Where did you stay?
I missed (as in wasn't there) the Vang Vien days. But I hated that town. It's a sad place with janky outdoor activities.
I remember reading about that and wishing I could go! But then I was a 20 year old backpacker. I did hear a lot about how much different Vang Vieng is now. I heard it from older folks who had been there and from younger folks who were disappointed.

I find that I either feel connected to a place or I don't. LP I was very connected to. I was just happy to be there. Vientiane as well. What a fascinating place. But VV was just not for me.

Laos has been on my list of wish places for most of my life. I was so glad to get to go. I was amazed at how little I knew of it and how badly I misunderstood what it was about. I loved Laos though.
A lot of the time if be away for a while (I would work a year long project and then go for the six or so months in between that and the next. Id usually just break the tank down, give stuff away and restart again. 
As the name suggests, there are thousands of islands in the Mekong near the border with Cambodia. There are three islands where people mostly stay. Don Det is a bit of a party island but because comparatively few people make it to this region, it's the quietest party place you'll  ever go to. I stay on Don Khon, which is much quieter - very sleepy, in fact.

For me, Don Khon is the best of both worlds because you can walk or bike across the small bridge to Don Det if you do feel like socialising but, again, the most I've ever found is probably 200 tourists in those circumstances. Been a fair while since I was last there, though. Before covid.

I also like to stop at a little town called Champasak on the way. I'm often the only westerner there and the locals are super friendly. Also means you can get up early and visit Wat Phu Champasak (allegedly the template for Angkor Wat) before tour buses start arriving from Pakse at around 1030. Have never seen another tourist there when I do that. Champasak has my heart due to incredible experiences I've had with locals who see few tourists in the actual town - have even been invited into homes for family gatherings. Special.
Thank you so much! On my new list. 4000 Islands, Dive in Thailand and Malaysia and maybe the Philippines. That's the winter.
Please report back after your trip. Enjoy!
I won first prize in an international piano contest!
I was thrilled about the results of this competition and just wanted to share!

I also added the program I performed if you are curious 👍 
Congrats!
Add a video bro, want to see you play.
Opening with op 10 no 1 takes some large testicles. Nicely done!
Congratulations! Do you have any advice for the sub on how to prepare repertoire? Or any advice in general?
i giochi d’acqua di ravel e due studi di chopin nello stesso programma, molto bravo ! congratulazioni
took me a minute to realize what are these Chopin's "Studios" :) Congrats!! What an honor
Congratulations 👏🎉💐
Congratulations! You must be over the moon!
Ayy well done man that’s huge
Great work to the CANNON!
Awesome!!!!!
Bravo!
What a program. Amazing work getting this far, practice pays off :)) Congratulations! 🎉
Wow, 100/100  - well done!!
Woah, congratulations!
Congratulations
Nicely done im jelly
Congratulations dude!
First of all, big congratulations, I'd love to see a follow-up post with some recordings of the pieces! Second of all, girl in second called suzuki 😭


edit: Apparently, suzuki is like immensely common as a surname. Very cool.
https://w.wiki/AYHS
Yay! I'm happy 4 u.
Well done !!
cool family name you have there

also, full marks?? wow!!!
Holy smokes..! That's something! Congradulations, you have my admiration!
Niceeeeeeeeeeeeee
Congratulations! Looks like you had tough competition, well done
That's amazing! May I ask what your practice routine is like? What does it truly take to win these competitions?
I love Jeux D’eau
Thought your name was Ion Cannon like command and conquer. Still, well done
I'm very proud of you. Very few people will ever accomplish what you did. 1st place in a piano competition! Wow
Congratulation! What's category C by the way?
Can we hear the recording ?
Ammazza bravo
Thank you!!
I'd love to share, but I couldn't seem to add videos and pictures in the same post
Yeah it's very brave because if you mess up a passage it can totally ruin the piece (true story 😢) Either way it looks impressive and is actually great at getting out the nerves!
Thank you! Well in all honesty for competitions you should select pieces that play to your strengths. It's certainly important to progress in all areas but winning often takes the "best" version of yourself as an artist. 

For this specific contest I actually chose more pieces that were shorter rather than two longer ones because I wanted to demonstrate a lot of contrast. However giving a judge a really interesting program is only useful if accompanied by an effective performance. Even though I felt comfortable with Bach, I chose it mostly so that I could lead into something really jarringly contemporary and then immediately into something incredibly serene (Ravel). 

Also know your energy limit and how to program in breaks! I played a lot of technical stuff but was strategic in placing pieces where I could relax.
Sì... (Le mie braccia erano "così" stanche dopo) 😆 Grazie mille!!!!
Haha it's definitely been an adjustment for me in having to write the piece names differently than I'm used to
Thanks 😊
I am super happy- we celebrated with some good ol' pasta and gelato ^^
Haha thanks- I have a fun surname
Thanks a ton!!
Grazie 🙏
Thank you so much! My main goal was to create a really interesting and contrasting program so I think it helped make an impression
Thanks- I wasn't expecting it frankly
Upload to YouTube and send the link?
That's a wise choice in repertoire. Students often think that techniques is the most important area evaluated. Interpretation of the piece, slow to demonstrate the ability of reatain and not rushing. Contrast of dynamics,. polyrithm. Those are all equally important. Good job.
I’m impressed at how well you thought this out. It definitely seems to have played to your strengths, and to have done what you intended it to do. Congratulations! 👏🏼
That sounds tasty! Well, you deserve it!
There may not be a video attached but I can only imagine that they played into your strengths! I would love to see you playing :D
+1 This. Please
Trip report: eating my way around Japan - my experience as a Black Woman
Budget: $3K + flights. I’m not great at tracking my budget. So this is a five months later estimate. 

Trip Length: 13 days

Destination(s): 
	⁃	Tokyo (4 days)
	⁃	Hakone (4 days)
	⁃	Kyoto (5 days) + afternoon in Osaka

Accommodation: 
	⁃	a nice hotel in Minato City, Tokyo
	⁃	A gorgeous traditional ryokan in Hakone 
	⁃	A BNB in Kyoto

Activities:
	⁃	Tokyo: wondering the different neighborhoods and getting lost, a headspa, sitting in the parks, hunting for cherry blossoms, Tsukiji fish market
	⁃	Hakone: being a hippo in my private onsen, pirate ship around Lake Ashi, hunting for Fuji views, Hakone Open Air Museum
	⁃	Kyoto: temples, Arashiyama Bamboo forest, eating the best katsu curry I’ve ever had in my life 
	⁃	Osaka: street food and walking tour

Recommendations:
I didn’t have too many set plans for Tokyo. I mapped out the areas I wanted to visit for sure — Harajuku, Shinjuku, Shibuya, and Yoyogi park. Each day I took the train to a different area and just wondered around. This is the way to do Tokyo. I loved allowing myself to be surprised by the city. A highlight was the biggest cosmetics store (Cosme Harajuku) in Tokyo. I purchased so many skincare products. Five months later and I’m still using my products. 

When researching this trip, I saw a lot of Tsukiji Fish market haters. However I loved it! I went at like 5:30 AM (thanks jet lag). I ate a bleeding fresh bowl of tuna. It was topped with uni — first time trying it! The uni added a buttery smooth texture to this delicious rice bowl. I also sampled the strawberry daifuku. I don’t fuck with mochi like that, but it was tasty. That strawberry was the star of course. Miss Strawberry is an icon!

I’m a relaxation girlie. And there are two quintessential relaxation experiences in Japan — the headspa and the onsen. First the headspa. I’m a Black woman with natural Afro texture hair. I was nervous that the experience would be negative because they surely don’t get many clients like me. However, my masseuse was amazing. She had a translator device that we used to communicate. She asked me about how to treat my hair. I told her not to brush or blow dry it. She then gave me the best scalp massage of my life, and my hair was so soft after. Honestly shocked the products worked ok on me, but I suppose a good product is a good product. Since I didn’t need a blow dry, she used the extra time to give me a foot massage. In total, the treatment was 3 hours and a total highlight of my experience. 

The Hakone onsen was also fabulous. I booked a ryokan with a private outdoor onsen. I took at least four dips every day. I needed this chill few days after the chaos of Tokyo. 

While you’re in Hakone, I recommend the Open Air museum. It’s a sculpture museum nestled amongst the mountains. The space put me in a contemplative mood — very Japanese, I know. I spent a few hours just wondering the space and appreciating the care they put into its curation. 

I’m not going to talk too much about Kyoto because this was the work portion of my trip. But I will say, I found getting up at 5 AM for the bamboo forest to be worth it. There was no one there, except me, the monks who care for the area, and a few joggers. If you do visit, please respect the forest. I saw lots of initials carved into these gorgeous bamboo trees. That made me sad, because the monks allow us to visit this beautiful space. We should leave it how we found it. 

My other Kyoto recommendation is to walk the Philosophers Path. It was quiet and peaceful. And at the end of the path, I found a lone cherry blossom tree that had bloomed! Feels like a metaphor for my trip. 

One thing I missed out on was nightlife. I heard that Tokyo has amazing nightlife. I was not feeling very social, but I with I would have joined a bar crawl. 

Final Verdict: I loved Japan. I was there as a kid and have overwhelming memories of Japanese people touching me and taking my photo, as the only Black person around at the time. That was over two decades ago, and things have changed a lot. I felt welcomed in all the spaces I went to — even Hakone, where I was basically the only Black person and one of maybe five westerners. 

About Me:
I am a 31 year old Black American queer woman. I am fairly experienced with solo travel, and am comfortable navigating new spaces. I also tend towards a high budget trip, as I value paying for comfortable and safe accommodations, as well as unique experiences. 
OP appears to have requested personal experiences from (women/people of color/LGBTQ+ travelers). If you are not a member of the requested demographic, please carefully consider whether your post will add value to the conversation.

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/solotravel) if you have any questions or concerns.*
I havnt had the beauty yet of  experiencing Japan but this was an excellent read, so glad you had the time you had :)
I enjoyed reading this. Gave me some good tips on my own potential Japan plan for next year

Sounds like you had a great time. Good to know you felt comfortable and safe as a POC. Yay to Bamboo forrest all to yourself
Thank you so much for this - very helpful! Can you please share the name of the headspa & ryokan/onsen? I too am a Black relaxation girlie & going to Japan for my birthday in December. I’m really looking forward to those specific types of experiences & any other creature comforts you found & can share ☺️
It's so nice to listen to a fellow Black traveler having a good experience.

The only Asian country I've visited is Türkiye and I had a great time there. However, Türkiye is more open to foreigners than East Asia.

Japan is not on my list, but Hong Kong is, but I am a little bit scared because of the stories I've heard about Black travelers in East Asia.
This was so nice to read and made me even more excited for the trip I’m planning next spring. Bookmarking for later. 🥹
If you come to Sydney, Australia, I will take you to the fish markets at Pyrmont.  (You sound chill, but I know nothing of night life, can't help with that).
I loved reading this report. As a fellow Black traveler there’s never enough info from our perspective out there. (I’ve started writing trip reports myself from my RTW trip, haven’t written my Japan leg yet tho. You’ve inspired me to keep going!)

 I’m so glad you didn’t let the negative nancies on this website discourage you from doing a lot of the “on the beaten path” things in Japan. They’re popular for a reason… right?

You mentioned Osaka. What did you do? I hope you ate somewhere. By far one of my favorite cities to chow down in the world!
Well posted!
I love this. It makes me so happy to know you felt safe, even down to getting your hair cared for. I'm going in November and hope I have as much fun as you did.
This was a great read. I’m planning a trip to Japan later this year and was thinking I’d skip the headspa because I too have afro hair but you’ve convinced me to add it to my itinerary!
I’m a solo black female traveler going to Japan for the first time November. I was expected politeness but glad you had a good experience.
Saving for when I go to Japan. I’m more budget conscious but willing to splurge on what are unique experiences for me.
u/ZestyUntilClose Thanks for your report; sounds amazing!
Your trip sounds lovely! I definitely wanna try the hair water massage and Onsen. I have locs though and wasn't sure they would be able to do it but I think it should be fine. 
Always happy to see fellow black women solo traveling! We need more of our perspective in solo travel!
Entertaining read. Glad you experienced as a POC was positive. 👏🏽👏🏽
Thanks for sharing, this is a nice report!
Thanks for such an awesome write-up! Yr making me want to add Japan to my travel plans!
Saving this, as I plan to make the trek there in the next couple of years. Thank you for sharing! 
What was the cost for the private onsen for 4 days?

Glad you enjoyed your trip! Im hoping to visit Japan later this year
i wish someone could give me a good explanation as to how most of Japan's food is so good, but their fruit is SO BAD. i've heard they have rigorous standards for how the fruit should look, but wtf about the taste?! they can't even grow a decent banana and yet they cost a lot relative to restaurant food. it makes no sense.
I loved my solo trip to Japan!
Thank you for this. I have a Japan trip planned for November and I was planning on going to hakone now I’m really excited. Was it easy to navigate the bus in Hakone?
I loved the food in Japan but got food poisoning when I went which wasn’t great
I loved Japan too and can't wait to go back
What a great read! I'm glad to hear you had a wonderful experience, OP!
thank you for sharing your experience! this was such a wonderful read and I'm happy to hear you had a blast!
Was there a language barrier when getting food?
I am so glad that you were able to experience the beauty of Japan without any negative interactions.
I'm so glad you had a good trip. I was going to be sad if it turned out the opposite.
Your report sounds wonderful. I must say, the best part for me is you enjoying yourself freely as a black woman. Glad you enjoyed your stay. Even Japan gets millions of visitors, I usually notice only a few black people in the crowd.
May I ask where you did your headspa. Would love to try it on my next trip.
As a fellow relaxation girlie, I really enjoyed reading this. 😃
[deleted]
cool read. Always interested in seeing japan through a different lens.
[deleted]
Thank you for sharing this!
how was the sauna spa?? I dream about those hot spring pools LOL
I've had Japan on my radar for a while, and this post has really inspired me to plan a trip. I really enjoyed this!
Please details on the private ryokan! I am a relaxation girlieeeeeeeeee
Glad to know you had a great experience. I’m going very soon and I had a question, do I have to purchase the train pass before I leave the states or can I do it there, like maybe at even the airport? Also is there a pass that includes the local trains you’d typically take throughout Tokyo and the bullet train for multi city travel around the country?
LOVE this, thank you so much for sharing! Totally agree with your approach to exploring Tokyo. I haven't been anywhere else in Japan yet and you have given me so many ideas!!
Surprised you only did half a day in Osaka. Such an amazing city!
[removed]
[removed]
Their currency is the weakest it's been in decades, do it soon :)
Japan is generally a very safe country. But at least in the cities I visited, I also felt psychologically safe.
It is pretty much the safest country in the world.  That was never a concern.
In Hakone I stayed at Hakone Kowakien Mikawaya ryokan. Breakfast and dinner every day was included. it’s also very near a bus stop that serviced all relevant parts of the city. 
 
The headspa was Headspa Kuu Omotesando location. I booked them by messaging them on Instagram. I am pretty sure they sent me a link to pay a deposit to confirm my booking. 

I also recommend my Tokyo hotel.  It was shiba park hotel near Tokyo tower. It is a bit out the way for the main tourist areas. However, I liked that it was so quiet. It was a library hotel. So there were different book collections on each floor. They gave you a robe and slippers that you could walk around the hotel and read books in. They also serve wine and tea every afternoon.
Hong Kong is completely fine as a black person from a western country.  Unless you intend to marry their daughters you will have a fun time - they aren't racist to well dressed black people that are understood to be there as tourists. 
In Asia, I’ve done Japan, China, and Thailand. Japan and Thailand were fabulous. I had many racially negative experiences in China.
Come to Singapore! It’s safe and you won’t be harassed! We are very open!
FYI, it was the fascist and ethnic cleansing enthusiast Erdogan who changed the country's name, keep calling it Turkey or whatever you call it in your native language
Yes! Enjoy Japan!
lol obsessed with your username
Yes I actually have no problem with doing touristy things. I am after all a tourist. And i like to do things that are meant for me. 

I didn’t talk much about Osaka because that wasn’t strictly solo compared to the other portions of my trip. I did a food and walking tour though. It was just an afternoon. I wish I’d stayed there a few days. I loved the vibe of the city.
Yes, the reason is that most people do the easiest and most accessible things, with little effort put in.
Good luck with your trip!
I was so nervous to go. But I decided to give it a try. The one I went to did a great job of accommodating me, and listening to my requests. One thing I wish I had done was bring my styling products with me for afterwards. I was basically left with very soft, wet hair. So I just went back to my hotel to add a little product.
Honestly you don’t have to spend a ton in Japan. I had a perfectly marvelous time just wondering the streets.
Message them on IG about locs. I’m honestly not sure how they might accommodate you. I usually get braids for my trips, but decided not to so that they could have unobstructed access to my scalp.
About $200/night. Breakfast and dinner included. Honestly the meals were a feast too.
Grow a banana? Japanese banana?

They import those from the subtropical countries.
Not as easy as the public transport in Kyoto and Tokyo tbh. I purchased the three day pass which gave me unlimited bus transport and the lake Ashi ship ticket. My main issue was when I first got off the romance car (a special train from Tokyo) in Hakone. It was a bit difficult for me to find the right bus we there were lots. But after a long time staring at the timetable signs, I figured it out. But after I did it once, I was fine. The timetable was very accurate, even at the stops further from the main dispatch area. I would say, do a little research ahead of time on how to get to your lodging from the main train station. And get a bus line map as well. If you do these, you’ll be fine.
Not really. All the places I went had English menus. There were some spots that said “no tourists” because they don’t have English menus. So I just avoided those. Also, I speak a small amount of Japanese. A little bit helps!
This comment -> https://www.reddit.com/r/solotravel/s/GhcgOgZdY5
What can I say? I like nice hotels and fancy spas 😂
A lot of Black people are (rightfully) nervous about travel. I’ve had bad experiences and many others have too. I write about my positive experiences to hopefully encourage others like me that they can indeed do it. Solo travel is for everyone, and there are places we can go and feel safe.
I’ve had this debate elsewhere on Reddit but my anecdotal data has pointed to the trend of it being heavily skewed to discrimination and hostility toward Black women as opposed to Black men. I had the same opinion as you until you hear the stark differences in experiences in a lot of places (especially Europe).
Just because you & your friends have never experienced racism while traveling doesn’t mean it’s “in one’s own mind”. MANY (incl myself) have experienced it in various countries & it’s important to know what possibilities are so you can be mindful & take precautions.

Also it isn’t just about the negatives when bringing up race & traveling. For example: OP mentioned her time at a headspa with natural Afro hair - not every location will know how to provide a good experience for people with similar hair texture & I’d like to know where I can also have that experience.
because there are countries where Black travelers are not welcome at all, countries where people are openly hostile against Black travelers. I'm not talking about microaggressions, but open racism. It happens and it's only normal we want to make sure we have a good experience.
The onsen you mean? It was incredible. I did a little spa day one evening and took a long soak, then used some of my newly purchased J beauty products. It was a great chill day.
I had such a special time in Japan! I hope you do it!
Check this comment thread: https://www.reddit.com/r/solotravel/s/Vff5SadX07
I purchased my Shinkansen ticket ahead of time from rail ninja. The fees are higher than purchasing direct, but I had a hard time navigating the Japanese site. For local trains, I just loaded up a few hundered yen at a time in my Apple wallet. You can search “suica” under Apple wallet transit passes, then tap to pay as you go.
It was a huge mistake for sure! I wish I had stayed a few days. I loved the vibe.
I mean it is.

It‘s much better nowadays but 10+ years ago you got starred at constantly as a black person in many asian countries.
As a BIPOC WOC, I always seek out stories from Black  travelers when thinking of traveling to a new countey. It's incredibly helpful especially when doing it as a solo female traveler. 

There's so many women, especially Black female travelers that can be helped by OPs story and excited to travel to Japan now. Its ok if you don't understand it but you don't have to be an ass about it.
Huh? They mentioned it like once and it is important to their trip report
Nah it was even weaker a few weeks ago but I agree, it’s a great time to go depending on which currency you have to exchange.
Thanks for the tip :)
Also loved Tsukiji fish market- i think they key is to go there and get snacks and shop around but for a full meal go to the surrounding restaurants to get a much better deal on fresh sushi.  We had some amazing Toro and sashimi bowls nearby that I can't stop thinking about.
Did anything happen or you experience was different or something because you are black? Sincerely asking.
This is perfect, thank you again ☺️ I actually do also need to book my Tokyo hotel so appreciate that recommendation too since I’m trying drink my weight in tea lol
Thank you for sharing the names. Everything looks incredible and your write-up is a good read.
Does that mean they are racist to non well dressed black people? Have to be well dressed to be treated good?
Most supermarkets do sell imported bananas, but Japanese bananas exist if you head to Okinawa.
wherever they get them...they suck. idk how you even screw up a banana. especially when most of their food is so good. you'd think they would have high standards to go with the high prices of the fruit.
Thank you for that info. Another question, did you get a chance to doing any shopping? I’ve seen videos of like after market stores and wanted to see if you had any experiences with those. Also, what was the best food you ate while there? Sorry for turning this into ama.
>I’ve had bad experiences and many others have too.

Can you share where this bad experiences happened? Thanks
[deleted]
[deleted]
Thank you! I really appreciated your post, and how well written it is. I'd honestly love to read more about your travels too.
Hopefully you get to go back at some point 😊
Nah, they are right.  It isn't the literal bottom, but those words mean that overall it is the lowest in forever.  A tiny bounce does not change that.
Hope you go soon! Stock up on some yen if you can.
I didn’t even think to check out the neighboring restaurants. My next visit I’ll do that!
I think that’s very much covered in the post…did you read it?! lol.
By well dressed, think 'didn't arrive as a stowaway on a freighter' or 'isn't overstaying a visa to work in the back of a kitchen/carwash/offload bulk stolen goods at Chunkking Mansion'. 
Honestly everything was fire. But some faves were Kyoto Tonkatsu Katsuda Shijokarasuma (Kyoto), ramen tatsunoya (Tokyo) and sushi don ya zuicho (Tokyo).
I purchased a lot of skin care products and clothing accessories (hair pins, purses, etc).  I wanted to purchase some shoes because they are much cheaper than in America. However, they didn’t carry my size. I didn’t even try clothing. I am much bigger than the average woman so they wouldn’t carry clothing for me. everything I purchased was just while wondering the streets and walking into stores that were cool. The only store I intentionally went to was a cosmetics store.
Because I see you can’t have a normal discussion on a topic you started I’m gonna disengage rather than play into your little game. Have the day you deserve!
Racism (or some sort of discrimination) happens in every single country on Earth one way or another. However, some places have a worse reputation and repetitive instances of extreme racism. Examples are: Italy, South Korea, China, Spain, Greece and the Balkans.
I’ve got a few trip reports under my profile!
I read it. Expecting something to have happened like an incident because se was black. But nothing, which is obviously a good thing. I am a POC and I personally think we should stop making it a relevant part of a story especially wen nothing happens. Sounds like she enjoyed herself in Japan as a woman. As a black woman seems unnecessary IMO.
I knew what you meant I guess I’m just like damn, why do we have to go the extra mile. Like me going into saks not wearing sweats cause this the world we live in. Whatever
Ah gotcha. I’m guessing they may not have my size as I’m tallish.
Good for you!
Don’t explain/ justify your concerns with this imbecile. He’s obviously punch drunk.
I just read some of your trip reports. Delightful! It makes me smile to think about you living your best life
Maybe you didn’t read it closely enough because there are details in there that are definitely useful / helpful - a) that OP found a spa that could work with her hair texture, which isn’t a given in a country where said texture is not the norm, and b) the *lack* of harassment is also good to know in itself for other Black people considering travelling there. 
If we lived in a post-racial society where Black people could travel everywhere and have the exact same experience as white people, you’re right, this post would be redundant; but unfortunately we absolutely do not live in that world yet.
I’ll bite. I’ve got time today. I write about parts of my identity that are relevant to my experience to share with others who are like me. There are plenty of people who are searching the sub for content like this. People who have heard the stories about what it’s like to be a black person in Japan. So I want to add my own experience, even a positive one. If my race is not a relevant lens through which you to read this post, then skip those parts.  But it is incredibly relevant for many people. 

I also noticed that you and many others always only care about the mentioning of my race in the post. But I also mentioned other parts of my identity too. I mentioned that I’m American. I get treated much differently as an American tourist than other nationalities, as I am presumed to have money. Why don’t you care about me mentioning that in my post? 

All of these identity markers inform how I experienced the world and how people treat me. And sometimes people are coming on this sub to find others who share those same identities.
I read it twice, but as someone with afro hair that is a common and normal question. Not everyone can cut afro like hair and it's not an odd question to ask a salon. She could have still said the hair thing which is relevant and just say (I'm black, afro texture hair). But to make it start out from the title and for nothing to happen why mention black. It is perpetuating race has something to do with everything. I think we should try not making it relevant to the situation, especially when nothing happened.
Your people are my people too. I am not discrediting your experience. I just meant that "as a black female in x" reads as this is what happened to me as a black female in x. But nothing happened. If nothing happened I personally feel as a black man that it might be a step towards something positive if we stop making it a super relevant part of the story. I went to Italy, I was never stared at more in my life anywhere in the world the entire 3 months there. I still had fun, went to places, had experiences, but it wasn't as a black man this was my experience. Yea it's lowkey racist but as a black man nothing happened passed some lengthy staring which immediately went away once they learned I was just another American. That's all I am saying. If anything you seem like the only one that cares enough to mention that you are black.
My parents prohibited me from playing piano because I’m gay
(I’m a 15-year-old male living in Oklahoma)

Yesterday, my mom took me to the eye doctor, and while I was in the chair, my phone, which was on the doctor’s desk, started buzzing. My mom picked it up to see what it was, and she ended up snooping around, finding a photo album on my phone named “aaaaaaaa,” filled with pictures of men. She immediately understood what it meant.

My parents are very homophobic and religious, they believe being gay is a sin. As I feared, they didn’t accept me at all. My dad beat me with a belt, and although my mom tried to stop him, she was also screaming at me.

Today, they told me they will look into conversion therapy for me (I have no say in this) and that I’m not allowed to play the piano anymore. They’ve already taken the power cable for my piano, and I’m completely devastated. I’ve been taking piano lessons for nearly two years and absolutely love everything about it. My teacher is amazing, and I really enjoy the classes. I’m very dedicated and don’t want to stop playing.

Can I do anything to keep learning piano, even without access to one? Are there ways to train my ear or sense of rhythm independently? What would you suggest I do in this situation?
OP, you received a lot of advice, both about piano and about seeking safety. Unfortunately, this post also generated some unhinged responses, sub-threads about the meaning and interpretation of religion, etc. r/piano is a large, international forum, so it's not exactly unexpected. At around 150 comments with 450 upvotes, I will be locking the thread now to prevent further disintegration of the quality of discussion.

To r/piano, thanks to those who provided honest advice for piano help in this unfortunate situation, as well as resources to find safety.
Aside from the literal abuse, that’s so gross to take away a kid’s source of creativity and expression. They know what they’re doing

I’m seriously wishing you the best dude. I believe you can overcome this. Like others have said, talk to a trusted adult or friend so you’re not dealing with this all on your own
your immediate safety comes before your desire to play piano. conversion therapy is straight up torture. can you report the abuse, try to live with a relative, or get out of the house somehow?

there are resources online for developing ear and rhythm training as well as music theory like teoria
This popped up on my main feed and I know it is unsolicited.

But I want to point out what others have said…them beating you with a belt and saying they are going to send you to conversion therapy is an immediate danger that you need to get away from. This is a lot to handle at 15, but if it’s even possible that some night in the not so distant future your parents will pay people to come to your home and kidnap you, take you to a “camp” where you are abused, harassed, tortured, and hurt, you need to avoid that at all costs.

If your piano teacher is your closest adult in your life besides your parents and you trust them, talk to them about it. If not them, some other adult who you think will take action on this or at least help guide you to taking action yourself. You can lead the conversation with “they won’t let me play piano anymore” but please talk to someone about the abuse and threat of more abuse.

If you are in need, The Trevor Project is a great resource and can at the very least be a listening ear to what you have to say and help you process your thoughts out loud. They aren’t only for suicide prevention, but also for crisis intervention. They are available 24/7 via phone call, chat, or text: https://www.thetrevorproject.org/get-help/

This is a crisis. You are in immediate danger if you stay home. 

At a minimum, get away from home for a few days to allow things to cool and settle, and maybe your parents will be willing to talk about why you felt the need to leave. They won’t suddenly change their mind, but something needs to be done to show them that THEY are the sinners here for beating and threatening their child. Pack a bag and see if there’s a friend or relative you can stay with for even one night.

If you need to talk to someone, my DM’s are open.

Stay safe. Love yourself.

Edited to add: DO NOT let them take your phone. They may try to since that’s what started it all, but your phone might be your only literal lifeline at this point. If things get worse (in my opinion it’s already at that point) you need a way to communicate with others and get help.
Can you deny you're gay? Your safety comes first. Say you're just curious or make up some excuses and talk about a girl that you like. Deny, deny, deny so you don't get send to conversion therapy.
Ugh I’m so so so sorry you’re in this position.

I’m going to stick to your question at hand for a moment.  Yes, you can 100% work on rhythm.  There are websites and apps that will give you a metronome, or in a pinch, you can at least use a ticking clock to give you a choice of 60 bpm (one beat per second) or 120 bpm (two beats per second.) You can practice different rhythms very precisely, such as learning to tap triplets with your right hand while playing eighth notes with your left hand.  You can also practice unusual/tricky rhythms such as syncopation, preferably with a metronome and gradually working up speed.  

You can also learn some music theory.  Are you familiar with the circle of fifths?  It allows you to figure out how many sharps and flats are in each key, and majors and minors in each.  You can draw a music staff and practice writing I, ii, iii, IV, V, vi, and vii* chords in each key, for instance.  This will improve your playing later when you have access to piano again.  Same thing with learning about chord progressions, minor melodic vs minor harmonic scales, and so on.  You may be able to get a music theory book from the library.  

On a personal note.  As a gay woman who was effectively kicked out of the house for coming out as gay at the end of college…… given your age, your location (tough situation) and your parents’ reaction, I would begin “playing straight” ASAP.  Your time will come, you’ll get out, but if you can persuade them you’ve changed your mind for now….. I’m just not sure you have many other options where you are, though perhaps someone more familiar with OK law can advise.  You may want to check the r/legaladvice.
You should contact your state's child protection services from somewhere else than your home phoneline and think of your safety first:

https://oklahoma.gov/okdhs/services/cps/cps-program-information.html#:\~:text=may%20be%20necessary.-,If%20you%20believe%20a%20child%20is%20being%20abused%20or%20neglected,7%20days%2Da%2Dweek.
You are in danger you need to get to someone who can help you
A 15ish yo kid that was involved in my extended circle of friends was "forced" to attend conversion therapy by his parents after he came out, and by forced, I mean he vanished one day. He committed suicide as a result of what he experienced. They apparently prefer him dead to being gay. 

I don't know what to say dude, you need to figure out a plan B quickly. The resources u/Dry_Background944 highlighted, and maybe your highschool teachers?
Talk to your teacher. Be open about how your parents are treating you. They may be able to help you.
Run away and find the nearest LGBT shelter where you can stay and get advice. Conversion therapy is torture. Please get out of there.
You should get away from them before they send you to conversion therapy.
There are laws in Oklahoma that could protect you (a partial ban on conversion therapy is despicable but at least it's something). Contact DHS ASAP and let them know what you are going through. Even if you have to go to a group home (there's a few that aren't very good but several are decent) you will be safe and alive and you will be able to play music. You can tell any of your teachers or even a bus driver or janitor what happened and they have to report it, they're all mandated reporters. If you don't get to take your piano with you, speak with your music teacher at school and they could have a way to get you one (if word spreads enough, a fundraiser could be done too). You aren't safe at home and you have to get to a safe place. I hope you get away from the abuse and I'm so sorry your parents aren't supportive. It's their loss. You can have a wonderful life without them (even in Oklahoma). Oklahoma has one of the largest gay communities and even though the legislature is backwards, the community has been successful throughout the years in getting laws passed to help.
Duuuude, I know you're not old enough but you need to to get away from that toxic environment. Your parents obviously don't understand and because of their religious beliefs, they might never understand. You are being abused and in this day and age that is unacceptable.    


For your own safety, please call a support group and find a way to get away. Conversion therapy is abusive torture. It has no place in today's society. I wish I could come to you and take you away. It breaks my heart.     


Just know that there is always a way out. Don't give up and believe that you have a right to be happy. Above all, contact the kids' helpline or any other support network and speak up about what you're going through. You need to be some place safe where you are loved and accepted.  


If you ever want to talk please contact me!
As a gay pianist, I feel really sorry for you. I don’t think there’s anything I can do to help, but my DMs are always open. Good luck man
Your parents are fucking idiots, i hope you get a better life when youll get 18, you will always be able to come back to piano in adulthood
You have to seek help and get out as soon as possible, conversion therapy is straight up torture
this is really fucked up. when i first read this i got shocked man, your situation is as fucked as it can be.

as another comment said, be open about this, talk of it with whoever you need, and try to get out of danger.

now, if you are going to live with a relative or so, be careful, because they may have received the same education as your parents meaning, the same beliefs.

try complaining to the authorities.

and to practice rhythm, there are a lot of apps and websites, explained by many users.

i am really sorry for this, it is so fucked up i did not know how to write this. hope you get out of there as soon as possible.
This is not a piano related question - because the threat here is not you not playing, but your immediate mental and physical health.

Do you have an adult around you, that you can trust? A family member or a teacher who is not from that religious community? Confide in them and make sure that they understand that this is more serious than them not supporting you - you are in danger and need to get out.

If you don’t have that - and don’t have the strength to contact social services, then my best advice (although it hurts me to say it) is to play straight right away. Go to church, admit your “sins”, tell your parents you know you did wrong and already “feel better”… And then prepare for an emergency escape when you get older. (Keep you money, where they don’t see it, get a phone and hide it set up housing without them knowing)

Once you leave all hell will break out, and be prepared to file for a restraining order against your parents. Unfortunately I have very little hope that they will ever come around. If your sick enough to beat a teenager for “sins” then they are a lots cause…

All the best to you…
Alr what everyone is saying about getting help (and also the piano) is 100% true, but what I just wanted to mention is that it will be hard. I don’t mean for this to put you off in any way as getting of that situation is a must for your safety, but it will be hard. Nothing in the future from this point on will be easy and I just want to warn you so that you know what to expect. 

Go and get help, and try your absolute hardest to stay positive. I know it’s hard to believe but you’re lucky to have that creative outlet, and WHEN you find safety, you should continue and perhaps something amazing will come of it. The future is big and vast and downright terrifying but it’s also bright and opportune and holds so many wonderful things just waiting to be found. Your future holds so much potential and the key to unlocking that is to face the fear and do it anyway, seek help, get the f out of the hellish situation you’re in right now and finally live freely as who you want to be <3

And one last thing, just know that this entire community is here for you and we support you in whatever you decide to do! We’re always here to talk if you need it
You may be reluctant but call the police, this is a hate crime and when there is assault involved it is even worse, I am someone who is also dealing with homophobia (not in my family though) so I mostly understand how it feels and you shouldn't be forced to live like that
First, post on r/LGBT .

I'm gay and sympathize a lot but I'll limit myself to a music-based solution. My suggestion would be... learn to play the drums. Hear me out: Showing interest in such a "manly" instrument that also might seem to them as (or you can frame as) a way you can "get that excess gay energy out" might have some benefits. Obviously only you know how that would play out, but thought I'd put it out there as an answer. It's the old "Now he's playing the dEvIl's mUsiC but at least he's not gay" approach.
contact the authorities depending on how bad the situation gets
Hey, I’m 16 with homophobic parents, but the only difference between you and I is they just don’t know I’m gay. 

I’ve kept it a huge secret from them knowing they’ll have a similar reaction your parents had, but other than family, everyone knows. I told a few “close” friends and it spread that way, but now I’m afraid something will happen and someone will blurt it out to my parents. So, I told a teacher at school and vented my issues to her, and now, if anything does happen, I can stay at her place until we can work something out. I graduate at the end of this year, so it probably won’t come to that, but know you’re not alone here. 

PLEASE do not listen to your parents about this, reach out to a support network at your school, and they can contact people who are trained to deal with scenarios similar to yours. I live in Australia, so it may be a bit different, but there are extensive programs to support both you and your parents through this situation, making sure you are safe, and your parents are properly informed. 

At the end of this year when I move out, I plan to completely drop any contact with my parents, and live my life being myself rather than who they want me to be. I hope you will do the same.
I also had my main instrument taken away from me when I was a teenager and lived with my Christian mum, though I was bad in other ways and was being abused in other ways. Music was my one safe place, the one arena where I wasn’t bullied, the thing I truly excelled at and the one and only source of joy and thing that gave me some sort of a future outlook. I totally get that despite being physically and spiritually and psychologically abused, you focus on how to still play the piano. 

A year after I had moved to my dad, my stepmother was quite vocal about how hard it was for her to live with the noise and the space I took up in my playing. I had also started learning the piano as a compulsory part of a programme I was doing. My stepmother refused to have a piano in the flat despite there being more than enough space, and money wasn’t an issue. I got myself a keyboard for my own money. Only later did I realise she was abusive in many other ways. 

My piano teacher, the second one I had as I got a new one after year one, noticed one day I was a mess and hadn’t practised at all. I rarely did manage to practise much, but this time was different. I had been up all night crying. He realised there was no point in note bashing, and we talked instead. He only made a short and dry comment about how my home environment couldn’t be safe, saying that nobody looks that beaten without a reason. He never got even a hint of annoyed with me for not having practised since because he knew why. It meant the world to me that one adult saw that and did not punish me for the consequences. 

But even before this, we always spent time analysing the music, like chords and chord progressions. From that watershed moment, this  became the starting point for the lessons; what is this music all about, what is the composer really doing here and let’s see how we can play it on the piano. I made astonishing progress. 

My advice to you when it comes to the piano is to keep your love for music and for the instrument alive by other means, don’t make it dependent on your abusive parents. Do everything that lifts your spirit, whether listen to music, read scores, watch masterclasses on YouTube etc., practise at friends’ or a church (!) if that’s a possibility, just know it’s not lost. 

What your parents are doing is cruel beyond words on so many levels. Love is the elixir of life, as is music. In music and in love we express who we truly are. And that is exactly why your parents take the piano away from you, to remove the opportunity for you to express a personality they feel threatened by. 

Remember that this is also the core of music: Composers and performers tell stories of their own life struggles through music, stories of desperation, frustration and disconnection, but also of the wonderfully relieving harmony and beauty in nature and the universe, and of the deep understanding and love and loyalty that are the essence of the human experience. You will always have music. One day, what you are going through now may well even become fuel to your music-making. 

Show your piano teacher this if it helps. My DM is also open.
after all the advices about your own safety you got, if your parents are religious you can go to the church chorus and sing (which will improve your ear) or play an organ. Also is a good idea train rhythm patterns or try to transcript a song or composition just by your own ear.
First off, you need to get away from your parents before they can submit you to "conversion therapy" which is basically glorified torture. 
It's not a sin to be gay. It is absolutely a sin to bear your child though. Your parents are hypocrites.
As many others here have pointed out you should call child protective services. 

Stay safe, all the best and may you soon be able to play piano again!
Contact social services. A helpline and tell them your situation
conversion therapy is literally just torture. do not let your parents send you there at all costs
If there are marks from the belt being used on you, this is worthy of child protective services being called. As regressive as Oklahoma is, beating your child with extraordinary force is not legal discipline. 

Are you able to slip away to file a police report yourself? Do you have any safe contacts you could reach that can call CPS to report this? You can also use this to kickoff an emancipation effort, possibly.

The kind folks at r/lgbt will have experience answering questions and directing you to resources. 

Piano is a beautiful escape from the troubles we face. Is your instructor an ally? They may be a route to finding safety for yourself as well.
I hope you know you do not deserve this and you do deserve better. Your parents are doing an awful thing.
Live at a friends house, work, save up for a piano.
I am so sorry this has happened to you.  You have done nothing wrong. This form of ‘punishment’ is abuse and is unacceptable. You need to talk to your teacher and tell them all of this and say you don’t know what to do, if they don’t listen or play it down, tell another and don’t stop until someone helps you. It’s so disheartening to hear your parents are wanting you to have conversion therapy. You need to get help, get out of that situation.  Then you can think about piano, don’t accept this treatment. The piano is a form of control and punishment it’s just awful. 

There are also help lines you can call depending where you are in the world. In UK it’s called Samaritans and you can call them when you are in need, there must be an equivalent for you
Ignoring the important things here-

Yes you can learn music theory without a piano and it will help.  Some famous pianists spent minimal time at a keyboard (Glenn Gould is a famous example) and could learn by focusing their mental efforts intensely.  It’s a bit early in your journey, but doesn’t hurt to try! 

Article:

https://www.bergenstreetmusic.com/blog/2017/5/28/the-song-that-never-ends-practicing-away-from-the-piano
Do what you can to avoid going to that torture camp. You have to think long term - and preventing more trauma is important. You might have to leave home for a bit. As for piano, I agree with working on music theory. Maybe reach out to your piano teacher for help - she can perhaps refer you to a place where you can practice piano even if you can’t pay for lessons themselves. Or if there’s a progressive teacher at school that you trust.
[https://www.musictheory.net/exercises](https://www.musictheory.net/exercises) This is a GREAT music theory resource. Doing ear training and learning to identify chord cadences will help you so much later.

Last year, I successfully helped a 19-year-old nonbinary person escape a similar situation in Texas despite the fact that I live several states away, so I have some experience with this. 

Do everything you can to get out. Hoard money somewhere they won't find it. Cash, yes, but also one of those prepaid debit cards from the grocery store (Green Dot or whatnot) that has a Visa logo on it. You can use it to buy things that require a card, like Uber or train tickets or things online.

Pack a backpack with a set of clothing, a phone charger cable, your meds, anything else you might need if you need to walk out in the middle of the night or something, and have it available. 

Having a phone that they don't have access to is essential - they can trace the location of your phone. Even if you have location turned off, many cellular providers have parental control software they can install remotely that will track your location. (source: I was a customer service rep for the largest mobile phone service provider in the nation)

One of the things you need to do is get a photo ID as soon as you're able. Even a driver's permit counts. If you have a passport, that's the best. If you don't know your Social Security number, get it.

DO NOT ASSUME YOUR COMMUNICATION DEVICES ARE SECURE. None of them. When I helped that nonbinary person get out, they swore up and down their parents would never look at their laptop. Well, their parents looked at their laptop and got the tracking number for the UPS package I sent to one of their friends that had a phone on my own cell phone plan in it. Then their parents took the package from the friend. 

Ultimately, helping them get out was too much of a sacrifice of my mental health for me to do it again or even talk about it. 

There are LGBTQ teens in Mormon families who end up in a lot of similar situations. People in r/exmormon will be happy to give you advice on how to get out even though you're not from a Mormon family as far as I can tell. We've seen this situation a lot before.
Report them to CPS. Beating you with a belt is straight up abuse. I hope they end up in prison.
oh man I'm sorry you're going through that! My good friend's parents sent him to conversion therapy, and after that he was never really the same. He was in his twenties when they did that to him. Once you're old enough, get away from them and have your own life. I know it's hard, but when you're older you can surround yourself with friends who will love you and they become your family. be well
Call CPS on them. Them yelling and beating you is wrong on so many levels. Your safety is much more important
It’s heartbreaking to hear that your parents want to put you in danger like this. My DMs are open in case there’s anything a random adult can do to help you.
I’m a mom and I want you to know that I love you. You do not deserve this and things will get better.  Please message me if you ever want to talk ❤️
just remind you parents that one day old, weak, and silly. and on that day they would prefer to be treated with love and respect, rather than that type of bullshit they are putting you through today
Call a state representative/human services.  They are abusing you (conversion therapy is illegal in a lot of states )
Damn, shitty parents for real. Having the end goal of escaping that situation can make it a little more beareble. Wish you the best, amigo.
The whole situation is a disaster and I really feel for you.  If the most urgent thing for you is music, you may find you can get access to a piano at school.  Try talking to the choir or band teacher and see if they can help you out.  Maybe there’s a practice room in your school with a piano.  Maybe one of them would be willing to let you come in before or after school or write you a pass out of a your study hall.  Of course there’s a risk you’ll get caught but sounds like things can’t really get much worse anyway.  😔
I can't stop thinking about your situation. Please let us know that you are OK. I actually emailed a law office in Oklahoma to ask about your options. This can't be something you just have to grin and bear.
Tell them conversion therapy is torture and doesn’t work. You can’t pray the gay away and if they try to make you go call scan and report them. You can not pray gay away and you are the way God made you. God didn’t make your parents barrow minded. They chose to be that way. Gay is not a choice.
Ur parents are one of the reasons I dislike religion. Regardless of whether u believe in all that or not, they are using religion to punish u for being a normal human being that doesn't conform to their stupid and outdated rules. I'm sorry, but religion comes before their love of their child, which is wrong on so many levels to me. U need to get the hell out of there. They are no longer ur parents imo. Not if they're going to punish u for something that "their God has created in his image." So according to their own text, u are who u are thanks to God anyway. And are a reflection of him. None of it makes any sense! It only makes sense when they pick a side that works for their current argument. The whole book is full of contradictions. It's always open to interpretation, or it wouldn't make any sense at all. 

Do yourself a favour and leave that house and the religion (which doesn't accept u for who u are anyway), and go live a happy, love filled life. U are certainly not going to get that with ur parents at home.

I have a couple of gay cousins, and one of them, a girl, recently got married. Her own mother was bitching the whole time. My grandparents (and many more) decided not to go due to religious reasons. I turned my back on any of them that didn't want to support their family member on her very special day. Screw those ignorant people. I'd rather they not be an influence in my life or my kids' lives. There may not be a right or wrong, but i know what I want to accept in my life and what I don't. I don't see sexuality as anyone's business but the people having consensual sex. Every time I've heard a male friend of mine gay bash soneone, I've always asked them this question: "Why do u care so much about what makes another man's dick hard?". That normally shuts them up. Everyone is so hell-bent on proving they're straight that it means they have to show the world how much they hate everything about being gay. Like, c'mon, man... how insecure are u??? Who's secretly a closet gay or bi? Most likely them!
You have nosy parents, and they will never not invade your privacy. They probably will not respect you as an individual either
Damn this is brutal, but I think the piano part is the least of the concern here. This belongs on a more serious sub or with a councilor. I hope you can get some help
Nothing to add here except I hope you're okay. It might not be a smooth ride, but you will get through this, and it will get easier. Try to be easy on yourself while others are being hard on you. There's a future you looking back on this in the rearview mirror, and they might already be closer than you think.
You’ve been assaulted… call the police! End of!
You can probably get a universal DC adaptor like [these ones](https://www.amazon.ca/Belker-Adjustable-Universal-Household-Electronics/dp/B07NKZCWT1/ref=sr_1_5?crid=2OM6IRJN4JH8S&dib=eyJ2IjoiMSJ9.sGlrITeG2AOud6coAq1kTnE-DadnEYDy6D1chV915dOntMLO6UQ5H9HFnyqCfNnPpEkIydWS-Y8_IcrYRGkwoi-rhz9tzYlfDsGVrk69z6ThPnhNbdLy6_pQ1-dUoTsNIghOSRY8nnzdzaL8hWQ2LxFI_hO7oyx5dPt2ENu7F9VauYqUQ-Fvt3VK9WJ87uZWm_OtcEFrJMVXz2pQBXbIN1qF3ZhrYLQAB4kLOEzJFGXEZq0KYeAqWPoTPpqU89NQ2rSZubP3HLYPwipSc6Ng6xzPKdy8HNZE4AMnljnxZsE.XZxG4uAtqv7_QcLuhH8O9w0jmIR7lgPZorl-5ZW7BlA&dib_tag=se&keywords=universal+power+dc+adaptor&qid=1712130687&sprefix=universal+power+dc+adaptor%2Caps%2C74&sr=8-5) that will work with your piano.  Somewhere on the piano, probably on a label on the bottom or near the power socket, there will likely be an indication of how many volts it needs.  If you don't find it, check the user manual (you can probably find a copy of that online if you need to).  It's not guaranteed that any given universal adaptor will have a connectors that fits the socket, so you may want to dig around for a forum for owners of that model/line of piano.  If you have a bit of money and don't mind spending $20 on something that isn't guaranteed to work, picking up something at Circuit City or similar that has a large number of connectors could be worth it—assuming that you can find some time to practice when your parents aren't going to notice.
how good and smart of you to reach out to others in these circumstances. There is a response that appeals to you and I hope you act on it. what appeals to you is good for you and will probably help you
If you are at all able get out. Run away
Adding my best wishes and moral support to the other posters.

Assuming you continue living with your parents, is it possible they would accept the idea that piano is actually very straight and religious? For example, Western Music has a very strong tradition in Christianity. Johann Sebastian Bach was a church organist, wrote a lot of music for the church, and fathered 20 children! There is a lot of religious music out there, both traditional and modern (see: worship bands).  If you can get them to keep your lessons going to learn some of it, it can also be a way to earn money. (Churches can be a steady way for a musician to earn some money. And, later on, there are plenty of denominations that are accepting of gay people and gay marriage.)

As for doing things under the radar - never openly save files that you don't want others to see. Use incognito mode in a web browser to look at anything you don't want a record of on your phone (piano, or other things), make sure you're ready to close the incognito tabs quickly if anyone is around. Like, at this point, you should not be using the Reddit app except in anonymous mode (which is like a browser incognito mode), login to your actual account with an incognito mode browser window. (It's annoying because you have to login every time but worth it in your situation.)
If they take you to the conversion camp, play the game my friend, "no im not gay its the devils work, yes i hate being gay and i absolutely want to be cured, lets pray" they have no way of verifying...to get out of there very quickly and without trauma enduced "treatments" (i can only imagine), and when you go back to home same thing "im straight as an arrow and Jesus is my only gay friend", until you get out of there at 18...no need to be killed or traumatised, they have theire view, and you re born like this so...best of luck
Bro playing the piano should be the last thing you care about. Conversion therapy is absolute torture. Im gay myself aswell, even though i haven't come out to my parents. Try to find a safe space, some supportive friends would help a lot
please report it to the police! it's terrible I hope you will be safe, conversation therapy is horrible and your parents being abusive they're just doing crime please report it
Oh sweets I wish you were closer then we could learn together, maybe some guitar and ukulele as well.    Hang in there, stay tightly  closeted for now, when college comes and you can leave......RUN
I know you posted here about being forbidden to play piano - but I am concerned for your safety. You should not have to tolerate this type of abuse. If you know a safe adult - one you can trust who does NOT share your parents' views - please tell them about the beating with the belt and the planned conversion therapy. 

Are you still attending school? Your school may be a safe place to stash a burner phone that your parents don't know about. Your school guidance counselor may have advice on how to escape this abusive situation.

On a much lighter note - I bought an inexpensive roll-up keyboard on Amazon for about $30. If someone would order one for you, you could have it shipped to your school or a friend's house so your parents cannot intercept it. Keep it in your locker at school or in the music room (if you think your parents may search your locker) so that you have a means to practice when you can. 

I am a nurse, LGBTQIA community member, and a widow with no children. If there is anything I can do to help you, please reach out.
I'm so very sorry to hear about your situation.  It's cruel and nonsensical on your parents' part, and it's ultimately going to deprive all of you of whatever good might be salvageable from your relationship.

> Can I do anything to keep learning piano, even without access to one?

One thing I've found helpful is YouTube videos with scrolling sheet music.  Actively read the notation as you listen to the music, keeping track of the tempo either by counting in your head or tapping your foot.  Play one or both hands hear the edge of a table while you read so that you can at least practice rhythms and motions.

Whatever you do, keep your safety first in mind.  My knee-jerk reaction was to tell you to find a church of your own (there are plenty which don't share your parents' views) and join its choir, but it's best to not escalate the conflict while you're stuck at home.  Placate them and pacify them until you can be free; others have given resources on how you can get free.

I want to be absolutely clear on one thing: humoring your parents is for your safely only and not for validating their views.  It's dishonest and debasing to pretend to be something you aren't.  It's awful, and I hope nobody ever again puts you in a position where you have to deny who you are.

And, *please*, reach out to someone if the situation gets you to feeling desperate and self-destructive.  Depriving the world of your uniqueness would be a loss to us all.
Sometimes I forget how fucked up the world is
Is there a center for teens or a school teacher/counselor you can talk to? You need to get help for yourself before you can proceed with your music
Call CPS. Make a report.
Bro call 911
everyone else has already covered the fact that there’s some serious abuse going on here.

all that said… fellas is it gay to play the piano?
I feel like this belongs in a different subreddit for counseling / parental abuse therapy / psychology / ?

You're asking very difficult questions and you're going to get a lot of random advice from people most of whom aren't qualified to say anything.
Safety first pal. I’m Christian as well, but I know a friend who is transgender and extremely gay (fits all the stereotypes: walk, fashion style, makeup, everything). Interestingly enough, I found out recently that her parents are both pastors at a Christian church. Though I’m sure they don’t support her behaviour, they still loved her like any other parent would love their son. She has never gone through any type of abuse and her parents are very supportive and kind (other than her sexuality of course.) your parents, if they are religious, should still understand what the mission of humans are- to love. They shouldn’t be torturing you like this.
OP, do your parents follow every law to the letter? Just saying, they can't beat you if they're in jail for some other shit. Maybe you can report them for something else that will fuck them over and give you a chance to escape.
Make a pentagram and send them to hell 👍
I'm so sorry this is happening to you OP, and so sorry that your parents are so ignorant and hateful.

This isn't really a "piano" question, but you could watch YouTube teaching videos and practicing mechanics on your keyboard, even if it's not making a sound.

But the bigger issue is the fact that you are being abused and victimised by the people who are supposed to love you. I'm not sure if you are in a position to pursue any kind of remediation against that, given that they are still your legal guardians and I'm guessing that Oklahoma has some backwards-ass laws when it comes to religious zealots imposing their beliefs on their own children.

If there is any way for you to stay with a relative or friend who is not so blinded by their cult's beliefs that they would punish their own child for something beyond their control, then that might be worth pursuing. However, it might deepen the rift and cause more unwanted drama and division in your family.

All I can say is best of luck and I hope things get better for you. Don't let your abusive parents make these decisions for you. Right now you're under their thumb, but as soon as you're able to be free of their hateful, bigoted ways I hope you're able to extricate yourself and be the best version of yourself.

Please stay safe, and please know that it will get better. You will not always have to suffer just for being who you are.
Your parents seem beyond awful. I’m just going to make a suggestion for your piano question. I really like a free app called Earpeggio. There are tons of drills for rhythm, melodic and harmonic decoding. This will pay lifelong dividends in your musicality. You’ll be able to hop into a jam with confidence, which is one of life’s greatest pleasures to me. Also, most keyboard power cords are ‘off the shelf.’  You can probably get another one easily by bumming a cable off of a friend. 
Your childhood sounds awful. I had a rough one too. So I know what I’m talking about here.  You’re going to have to navigate a tough field by your wits. Have a plan and a back up plan and act like a chess grandmaster—think ahead and figure out how you can get by until you’re old enough to get out. Piano kept me sane during my highly unstable childhood. I even ended up living with one of my teachers as my home life was untenable.  Keep playing however you can, even if it’s on an app. Hang in there.
This is so messed up, where does one even start? As a concerned fellow human, if you are in a dangerous situation, being emotionally, physically, and spiritually abused, I hope you report to people/authorities that can help you to become safe.  
  
As a Christian, I am sorry for the treatment you have received from others pretending to bear that label. To know Christ is not to destroy, but to know the divine kindness that heals. I pray you meet Jesus and His followers for who He truly is (as every chapter of the Gospel shows) but much more I pray your family would be convicted by His grace and turn from their sin before it is too late.  
  
Edit: But before it’s too late, please prioritise your safety, and you will find your way back to the peaceful gift of music and piano in good time.
Try to research if there are any public pianos in your area. Library or maybe you school has a piano room. Ask your music teacher. And the music teacher at school. Maybe a friend of yours has a piano.
On top of the advice you've gotten, you can also train solfège which is incredibly useful. The app perfect ear is pretty good for that  It has options to pay for a better sound and unlock more features but yiu can try it out for free.

Also there are locations with pianos you could visit. Sometimes music schools allow you to practic there. There's also practice locations and public pianos. Maybe there's a piano at your own school and you could practice there. And if you have a friend with a piano you might be able to practice at theirs too.

I am really worried for you, conversation therapy is abuse. Hitting you with a belt is abuse. If they're homophobic and abusive you're in danger. Please stay safe. Too many people thought: they wouldn't really hurt me.
Just get out of there and ask for the help
Damn bro I'm sorry I guess I don't have any words to contribute to your post other than I hope everything goes good for you and you are safe
Charge your piece of shit father for beating you with a belt.
I’m so sorry to hear this. I also grew up with homophobic parents who put me in conversion therapy. I no longer speak to either of them. Thankfully, they didn’t take away piano and it was the only thing that got me through that dark time. I would take others’ advice here and try to report the abuse and stay with a family member if you can. Taking away music is just cruel and I hope your parents come to their senses. 

As horrible as it is, if you can’t get out of the house, you may just need to pretend that you’ve “seen the light” and are straight just so you can make it to 18 and get the hell out of there. I’m so sorry you are going through this. I completely understand how you feel and it’s awful.
Man, this just sucks. Really.

I'd say your best bet is to act straight until you're old enough to get out of the house and live on your own

Now, I don't know much about religion since I've been born in an atheist family, so correct me if I'm wrong but isn't it a religious mantra to love and forgive people? So why are your parents shunning you out like this then?
I'm sorry to hear this and know that music can help in any situation. I don't know if this helps in any way, but I am happy to give you free access to piano courses we produced at artmaster.com. Hit me up with you email if you like.
I think that's s not a case for Reddit. You should talk about it with other adult person you can trust or call some children protection services (I don't know which is good to call in the USA).
can you deny it? like say that that photo album was not because you're gay but because you are wanting to work out and thats your ideal body or something?? im so sorry this is happening though☹️ as another queer 15 year old, i am so sorry that you're facing this kind of abuse from your family, my heart breaks for you :( i hope you can find a safe space, and definitely reach out to the trevor project!!! their site is great because you can exit it with like a triple click or something so you are less likely to be found out.
Please ask on r/cps what your options are
I’m so sorry you’re going through this. This sounds terrible. I wish there was something I could do to help. DMs are open if you need someone to talk to.
they do realize music is a male-dominated field right...? like over half of pianists are men......all the great composers (Mozart, Beethoven, Chopin, Lizst, Bach, Mendholsohn...(all pianist guys btw),  Guess it's not "manly" enough...

Stay safe. For practicing eartraining and without a piano (if you can use the keyboard part, you can still play scales or other things,  use a phone app to hear a note and try audiating or just practice hand positions, plenty of excercises you can do without sound or just playing scales for fingering), there's an an app called Earmaster and ofc plenty of videos online. Some need you to pay but it works. Yo could also try getting one of the free musicwriting programs and try writing music, you don't need a piano neccesarily for that and you can practice notes and other musical elements. IMSLP hs plenty of sheetmusic for free you can look at to teach yourself the elements of classical music, and there's a whole wealth of videos online to teach most music things- just check who you're learning from and don't just take a Simply Piano ad XD

&#x200B;

There's also the world of posttotal music, where you're technically doing music but it looks like a math problem. No joke.  

Best of luck and hopefully you get out of the situation! Just remember- safety before the art, you can always find another piano but you can't find another you (or your hands0
I am so sorry to hear that your family isn’t supportive, I wish everyone could just learn to love no matter what. If you still have access to your phone easily, Duolingo offers musical lessons as well now and I have found it very educational as a musician. You should definitely give it a try!
OP, are you Catholic by chance? I went through a very similar experience at your age when my mom went through my diary and read that I was leaning towards bisexuality. I can totally pass on the resources that 1) helped me fit into my parents idealized version of me long enough to keep me safe til I got to live on my own / leave for college 2) resources that are ACTUALLY affirming and can help you not go insane while still having to be involved with the church under your parent's roof (being really active in these spaces convinced my parents that I was "healed" or whatever while not actually hurting my sense of self)
Bro something to consider. You're dead to them. So much they would take away your development.
I know this sounds weird, but there are some denominations that welcome everyone. I attended a Maundy Thursday service where the priest is gay and married. Could you check that out and see if you can get support there? The church is the Episcopal church. I know Methodists have some welcome churches, and I believe the Presbyterian church has some. You could get emotional support without judgement. I believe you could talk to gay clergy, whether or not you attend the church. 
I wouldn’t go to any teachers at your school. Teachers are in a bad position right now. If your father beats you again, a teacher WOULD want to know that. I taught for 30 years. We had to report all physical abuse.  I am so sorry you are going through this. Maybe you have some gay friends who have supportive parents? Would you be able to talk to them in confidence? Not every parent of gay children is the same. Your father should be in jail.
Posiblemente tengas que demostrarles una manera, o forma en la que les demuestres lo contrario (no de tus preferencias, lo digo por sus maneras de pensar hacia gente con esas preferencias en general), te podrías dar un poco de apoyo con la terapeuta (y si es de la misma religión, ya ni modo) , podrías hacer una forma de explicarles o ayudarte por un experto para hacerles entrar en razón, ya que pues de alguna u otra forma no debería de ser así, y tienes que hacerlo, ya si termina todo bien, te regresarán el cable de alimentación, si tienes un sueño tienes que perseguirlo, a pesar de las adversidades y problemas que se te pongan en frente.
you can "play" on a flat surface and try to imagine you are playing the piano. I used to practice monolight sonata and fur Elise like that as a kid XD. Learning a new piece is hard however, works best if you already know a bit of it.
Sadly, I know where this is going to get reposted
You should punch them in the face
I don’t know if you can learn piano without one but i personnaly learned finger movements when at work you know the smooth technique to go through each white keys with the left hand

Hello im sorry for what you endure
I believe in Jesus but even if for me homosexuality is a sin i will never reject someone because of that. A belief is personnal thing i don’t know if they are Christian but even the Bible is against them

«But I tell you, love your enemies and pray for those who persecute you,»
‭‭Matthew‬ ‭5‬:‭44‬ ‭NIV‬‬ https://bible.com/bible/111/mat.5.44.NIV
I don't really support gay, but what you're parents doing is fucked up, try to report abuse or something, you're safety is top priority
Of all the things that never happened, this never happened the most.
[removed]
[removed]
Hi, thanks for the reply. Unfortunately, both sides of my family are very religious and homophobic. However, I have an older cousin who came out as a lesbian a long time ago, when I was really young. I don’t remember her much, all I know is that she now lives in Florida, and everyone in my family hates her. I found her Facebook profile and sent her a message, but I’m not even sure if she uses Facebook anymore
I agree, your parents aren't right, you should report it to your school team and they should help you
Hi, thank you so much for the reply! My piano teacher is amazing, and I know she really likes me too. However, we’ve never really discussed worldviews outside of piano, so I’m not even sure if she’d support me on this. I’m really afraid of doing something that could backfire, like my teacher telling my parents. 

I’ll definitely reach out to people at the Trevor Project, thanks for recommending it. I wasn’t aware of this resource. I’m looking for alternatives, but for now, the only thing I think I can safely do is to lie and pretend until everyone believes I’ve been “cured.
...if you have cash, use it for a burner phone if they take your phone away.  Stay safe-if you are talking to adults make sure they are allies and can be trusted.
The Trevor Project is a must. OP, if you are reading this, please at the very least use the resources there. Without overstating anything, it might save your life.

If the Trevor Project cannot help (which depending on your state they might not be able to do much) avoid conversion camp at all reasonable costs.

Keep your head on a swivel, some terrible people take advantage of these kinds of situations. Go to other relatives and friends before strangers.

Please remember that once you're an adult your life will change and it will get better. Stay strong.
Second this, they want to know a reason that even may take a lie for the truth, just tell them there was a messenger group with your friends and as a joke they started sending you pictures of men. Calm the waters so you can start working on your exit of that house in 3 years (you need to, it is the best for you and for them, if you still want to have them in your life), but avoid them to send you to that thing. 

Regarding the piano matter, you can even print/draw the piano on sheets of paper to keep practicing your hand coordination for example (I had a piano teacher that started learning piano that way because she couldn't afford a piano/keyboard while kid), I'm sure you will find something to keep your hearing trained.
Thanks for the tips! I’ll try to focus on learning music theory until I can fake my way out of this situation.

I’m so sorry you also didn’t find acceptance from your family! Do you still have contact with any of your family members? I love my parents, and I’m really afraid of losing them forever, but I also know I can’t keep pretending my whole life.

I’ve posted this on the legal advice subreddit, and there’s not much I can really do. Everything they’ve done is still legal here in Oklahoma, even beating me. I’ll just have to pretend to be straight so I don’t suffer to much at conversion therapy, but I’m really afraid
Unfortunately, everything my parents have done, including beating me, is legal here in Oklahoma. Also, I don’t even want to imagine what would happen to me if I went to CPS and my parents found out
“Be open about how your parents are treating you”??? Are you serious? They’re unashamedly abusing their child. There’s nothing to be “open” to in this situation.
Exactly, that's the thing. At such a young age you think your parents are the masters of your life. They are not and they are wrong. A lot of kids start thinking there's no way out but the first step is to speak up - to get support from programs or contacting state services for support and protection.


The sad reality is that some parents will never understand. That's OK. We only want caring, accepting and trustworthy people in our lives. Toxicity has no place. I guess you just have to be patient until you can support yourself or find some room mates. 
At 15 there's not a ton of hiring options legally.
Beatings and conversion therapy go well beyond "nosy." They're abusive and dangerous.
I have to take issue with this. Piano is likely OP’s lifeline and safe place, the one thing that gives me pure joy where he can feel the joy and expansion. Yes, safety first, but taking this away from him is like cutting off the blood stream. He needs it, which is why he’s asking about it.
Damn...I'm gay.  Guess I'll go break the news to my wife of 25+ years.
My cousin’s husband won’t sing “Happy Birthday to You” because he thinks singing is gay. Maybe music and all other artistic pursuits are gay, too. If you’re a woodworker, don’t use the finer grits of sandpaper — gay. /s (except for my first sentence, which is absolutely true)
Yeah, no matter what your opinion is on LGBTQ people, the idea of abusing your own flesh and blood so horribly over it is just sickening - and ironically as far away from Christian values as you can get. I hope OP can get themselves to safety somehow, I can’t even imagine what it must be like to live through this.
This guy got downvoted as soon as he mentioned "I'm Christian" and people didnt even bother to read the rest
About your parents. Just tell them you’re not gay. Hide it until you finish college and are on your own. Don’t fight them it’s now worth the stress. If you have to go to the camp just constantly say you’re not gay and get out asap. Make life as easy for yourself as possible. You’re not going to change your parent’s mind just yet. Perhaps when you’ve established yourself and are living a good life they will come to their senses, but not now.
No creo que entiendas lo estúpidos que pueden ser, lamentablemente, algunas personas religiosas de Oklahoma.  Es casi seguro que tratar de hacer que sus padres comprendan y acepten no sea una buena opción en este caso.  Quizás más adelante, cuando sea mayor, pero no ahora, cuando sienten que están "a cargo".
Where?
[deleted]
Wtf is wrong with you
This sub is for piano-related posts. Your post may be better suited for a different subreddit.
If you have her name, try to find her on other social sites as well, such as Instagram, etc. You can also try just googling her name; there are websites that store peoples info (like phone and email) and for a fee, you can access the info. Super creepy those even exist - that’s the cost of social media in this day and age where all the companies sell our data to other companies for a profit. Hopefully in this case it’s helpful.

I hope you are safe and find a way out of there. I’m a firm believer that Jesus himself would’ve never condemned homosexuals. You are loved and there is nothing wrong with you.
I don't really have any advice, but I really hope you get out of this situation safe and sound. This is abuse, and you're very brave for seeking help. Perhaps there are some Oklahoma-based LGBTQ+ organisations that could help you out in some way? Definitely try to get in contact with your cousin though!
i hope everything goes well
hope that leads somewhere

oh if you feel comfortable, tell your schoolteachers - they are mandatory reporters and can get you connected to housing resources
This website is ridiculously good for finding people

https://www.fastpeoplesearch.com/
update us if you can (if you want). sounds kinda stalker-ish but you may be able to locate their phone number or spouse through her facebook page if you cant get direct contact with them
I had a viola teacher who I never talked about non music stuff with until a day I mentally broke down. You know what happened? She dropped the whole lesson she had planned in order to make sure I was feeling okay and had access to resources. Music teachers tend to be emotionally accepting. Not all. But if you like her now then chances are deep down you know she’s a trusted adult. She might just be your life line.
If you feel unsure about coming out to your teacher, you can also just tell about the physical abuse. But I understand your hesitation to share. I hope you find safety and the resources you need. The Trevor Project is a good place to start.
This person had good advice. Avoid conversion ‘therapy’ if you can.. I wouldn’t usually suggest lying, but in this case.. do what you need to. Unless you can find a safe way of leaving home (which it sounds like isn’t an option) then yes, fake it for now. The person who suggested a burner phone is right.. get one, hide it properly so it can’t be found and use it for emergencies. Act like the straight kid they want but don’t lose yourself.. and make plans now for how you’re going to leave when you finish school / turn 18.

As much as you love your parents, you need to get out asap because they’re abusive (even though that’s really hard to accept). 

And there is some other great advice on here for how to continue your interest in piano without actually playing. Hopefully that part doesn’t stick and they’ll let you continue lessons.

Stay safe friend, and reach out to the resources others have linked to.. you can get through this 💜
We are not living in medieval times anymore, what the fuck?
Please dont just let this happen like that, try to defend yourself.
Also, since youve been beaten with a belt, and it was not means of discipline, but for your sexuality, cant you do anything legally then?
Also what is conversion therapy?
Beating your child isn’t legal in oklahoma or any other state. It’s child abuse. I don’t think you’re actually in Oklahoma because we have DHS not CPS.
dull books quarrelsome unique consider innocent payment yam ruthless boast

 *This post was mass deleted and anonymized with [Redact](https://redact.dev/home)*
Yes but I’m sure even something like babysitting or gardening would be able to provide somewhat of an income. Also, we don’t know how far OP is from turning 16, so if he’s turning soon, then he’d definitely be able to find a job more easily.
Exactly. Abuse and hate are so much further away from God’s words compared to LGBTQ sins. Sad how the parents violate their core values for something like this
looks like there are more upvotes than downvotes, haters gonna hate, and I don’t give a crap about whether I got downvotes or not. at least be respectful of my religion bro. Also I’m not a guy but thanks for assuming my gender
r/shitposting lol
We all have our own opinion, it’s not yours to judge and decided what I do, be sure to check with your therapist, good day
[removed]
You used to be able to grab a phone book and look up everyone’s number.
At 15 though, and in Oklahoma, I'd assume the only option there is foster services. They're shit in Texas, I can't imagine they're better in OK.
It seems super sketchy based on the name, but it's very good.
Conversion therapy is when you take someone who is LGBT and they “pray the gay away”. And really thats putting it nicely theyre torture camps and a lot of states are making them illegal.
Yes, beating your child is legal in Oklahoma:

> It is not child abuse for a parent/teacher/person to use reasonable and ordinary force to discipline a child, including, but not limited to, spanking, switching, or paddling, so long as the force is reasonable in manner and moderate in degree. Oklahoma Jury Instruction #4-35B.

And yes, CPS is called DHS in Oklahoma, but they are still a child protective service, it even says so in their site:

https://oklahoma.gov/okdhs/services/cps/cps-program-information.html#:~:text=If%20you%20believe%20a%20child,%2D800%2D522%2D3511)https://oklahoma.gov/okdhs/services/cps/cps-program-information.html#:~:text=If%20you%20believe%20a%20child,%2D800%2D522%2D3511.

Why are you doubting OP? Don’t you think he has been through enough?
Basically every piece of media says CPS, it's not an unlikely mistake for a 15-year-old to make.
Okay I read “be open” as “be open to what your parents are trying to do,” and not as “be open to OTHERS about what your parents are doing,” which honestly makes more sense in context I just got really heated about the idea of a kid being abused but thanks for this response I definitely don’t want to go off on someone for something they didn’t mean! I appreciate the clarity
Nah, im Christian too. Im just saying, people on reddit tend to hate on Christians for no reason
Your opinion is dumb and harmful.
This kid has been through hell, and even if you’re joking, that’s a fucking horrible thing to say.
And everyone's mailboxes had their last name on it.  If you wanted to talk to someone at house X, get the last name from the mailbox, look it up in the phone book... the first names of the adults would be there along with their phone number.

It definitely phased out of commonness in the early 2000s.  I remember asking friend X if he had friend Y's phone number.  And he's like "No, have you tried the phone book?"  It seemed so obvious but at the same time already antiquated.
Only if you agreed to it though.. 
At least in my country.
https://www.chickashalawyer.com/okla-law-blog/is-spanking-considered-child-abuse-in-oklahoma/#:\~:text=Oklahoma%20law%20states%20that%20anything,can%20be%20considered%20child%20abuse.
pot snobbish wipe piquant rude engine entertain payment forgetful squeeze

 *This post was mass deleted and anonymized with [Redact](https://redact.dev/home)*
[removed]
The statute for Child Abuse by Ordinary Force is OKLA. STAT. tit. 21 § 844, states “nothing contained in this act shall prohibit any parent, teacher or other person from using ordinary force as a means of discipline, including but not limited to spanking, switching or paddling.”

I’m directly quoting the part of the statue that says it is legal to spank your child in Oklahoma. CPS/DHS will do absolutely nothing about it. OP can get himself into a harder situation than he already is if his parents found out they went to CPS behind their backs. Unfortunately, this is not good advice in this case
[removed]
Is there a limit to what is considered too much force for discipline? Because spanking with a hand using moderate force is very different from beating with a belt.
I’m sure there is a limit, but since paddling is legal, using a belt probably is as well. Unfortunately this is the reality, it really sucks, and I hope this changes soon
Painted my old piano
My grandparents bought this piano when my mom was a kid in late the 60s. It was in my bedroom growing up in the 90s and well it wasn’t looking so great. I decided to paint it and turn it into a work of art, now it’s hard for anyone to pass it by and not play a little. 
Not usually a fan of when people paint their pianos, but this was done very well. The wood trim looks great on it
I dig it.
Now this is cool
Normally I hate painted pianos (like dog-eared books) but this piano looks like it was made to be painted! Time to play some Dave Brubeck?
Graphic Designer here: what a fun paint job on this piano. It’s really clean, I love that you kept some of the case unpainted for contrast and I like your colour choices.
Op, this is delightful! I’ve seen a lot of piano tragedies in my time but this is expertly executed. Love it.
I love this!! 

Looks amazing- I would smile every time I saw that in my house.
Sheeeeesh
Love it..
how long did it take? This looks awesome
Kids would love to learn on this is you give lessons
This looks great. You're as much an artist as a pianist!
This is beautiful, and I’m even happier to hear that people now are so memorized they have to stop and play lol. Good job :)
Making me hungry for avocado, onion and red pepper.
Love it. One of these days I’d like to do something similar to my childhood piano.
I like it.
Love it great job
I love it! That’s so much fun, I think it’s a great idea.
Super cute!
Wowwww, this is amazing!!!! I love It 😍😍😍😍😍
Looks absolutely amazing!
What a vibe! Looks like something you see inside a quirky celebrity’s home on Architectural Digest
That is sick..well done!
sick
beauty!
Fantastic. Could not have turned out better.
That looks really good. Could be displayed in a store.
Oh my god I love this so much
Ooh that’s so bold and cool 😎 hope it helps you enjoy your practice time 💕
That looks great, you did a lovely job. It looks cheerful and harmonious.
Nice
Very nice ✅🙏🏼💚
this is a very creative approach. if you play the piano and draw so well - you are talented 👏🤗
i dig it.
Looks funky
Looks like something john lennon would do
This looks really nice 😍
beautiful!
That's so cool!
AMAZING
Beatutiful
That for sure is one groovy piano
Honestly that is fire
wow - amazing :)
Theres some relation between music and art, as in synaesthesia. Your piano art literally speaks music! So cool!
Love it!!
I've never seen a painted piano I've liked... until now!!
This is *really* cool and tasteful. Awesome work
Wow. just. Wow.
If this was a full size upright I would scream, but since it's a 60s spinet, I think you have definitely improved it!
How Ayahuasca of you.   Did you know that during the Victorian Age, wealthy people bought pianos just to paint them, including the keys?   Nobody played those pianos, they were just status symbols, art or decorative furniture.    People made their living painting pianos. 

Great job.  I can't paint mine because it is also a desk.  Other than the legs, fall board/backboard and one side, you can't see the wood.  My mother painted her kitchen cabinets just like this with a dominant lean toward pink.
My daughter is a painter. I sent this picture to her. What a wonderful idea. It looks great!
lit asf actually
not a fan
Can you paint mine too
brought an unexpected and actual smile to my face. Well done, looks fantastic and inviting
Not usually a fan of when people paint their pianos, but this was done very well. The wood trim looks great on it
Super cool idea except moving it around
I was tempted to pay a local cabinet maker to rip out the insides of my old piano and make space to add a Kawai or Roland keyboard (something that could be swapped out over the years). And I could add some monitors where the strings were.  But it would have cost too much at the time.
Such a well kept piano from 60s
Georgeous!
Gorgeous.
An uncle of mine had a spinet piano, the bass notes sounded like wet cardboard.
Very beautiful
Absolutely beautiful!
Looks awesome
this is sick
Very beautifully done
Not my style but it looks great!
This belongs to r/DIWHY
What the hell is even that
Thanks! I love when a good design choice leads to less work, I didn’t want to have to paint around the keys!
Thanks, it took me about a week painting a couple hours each day. I didn’t want my paints to mix or blend together so I had to do a lot of waiting.
[https://i.imgur.com/iyBhn8R.jpeg](https://i.imgur.com/iyBhn8R.jpeg)  kids are drawn to it for sure! I was scared of my piano teacher and her house at first when I started, something this colorful would feel a bit comforting to a child I think.
Haha well at least those are all healthy option’s! Wouldn’t want you suddenly craving donuts 😆
[picture](https://imgur.com/a/eDACBmf)

Thanks! I love melding art and music together, here’s a picture of a couple works I made for my BFA exhibition.
Very nice!
I travel solo and never hook up
It’s not the first time when I heard „I thought that all solo traveling girls hook up.” I was very surprised because I don’t dress sexy, I don’t have my pictures on Instagram and I’m shy and guys still think that I’m doing sex tourism. I have „date to marry” values and I’m totally fine being single for months.

Did any of you also had a problem with being misjudged like this?

NO PRIVATE MESSAGES
The main point of solo traveling is to enjoy yourself and grow. For some people this is a synonym of hooking up, for others of taking pics for instagram, for others learning and experiencing culture, for others all of that and more. 

If it's legal and you're content, keep it up :)
That’s odd because in my experience, solo traveling women or groups of women traveling tend to be very reluctant to do romance with anybody. I think it’s primarily safety, but also with so much other stimulation (food, clubs, attractions) while you travel it’s not really necessarily to get your rocks off to feel satisfied. It’s already quite novel without adding that on the side. 

As a man I tend to find myself more in the mood when I’m like, understimulated and bored at home to fill a void.
I've definitely seen this more when it's solo travelers staying in hostels. People who don't do the night life scene and people who stay in regular hotels definitely come across this less.
I have never heard or assumed this
Yeah I travel solo and never hook up, although it has been assumed that I do. In a different country? By myself? With a stranger I've never met before? no fucking thank you. I'm just about brave enough to handle the travel part and that's it
FYI, the phrase “sex tourism” refers to prostitution! I know you are using it literally, but you might not want to.
When people find out that I’m married and sometimes travel solo I often get "and your husband allows it?!". So you can’t win.
Only by stupid people. Solo traveling is for the person traveling… it’s not a porno for crying out loud. I hope you have that person a withering look and put them in their place.
I've traveled solo all over the world and never once hooked up with a man while travelling nor have I wanted to. It's a stupid misogynistic attitude imo. Sure, some women love to hook up and I bet it happens lots. But also the opposite. Just like men. Crazy to think we may all be individuals.
Hey friend! 

I applaud you for knowing your values and doing what works for you. 

Sometimes people assume that what they are doing is what everyone is doing. If you encounter people who are surrounded by hookup culture, they get really shocked when they bump into people outside it. They don’t realize they are in a small bubble. 

They also try to convert people to the hookup lifestyle and to normalize it, and it comes off as peer pressure-y. 

The reality is, sleeping with strangers, especially strangers who sleep around a lot, remains a risky business. If I were you I’d def just keep enjoying at your own pace and enjoy the peace that comes from not dealing with the downsides of random sex with strangers.
I solo travel and I never hook up either. I try, but I don't. Haha
Yup, in Turkey. I never felt harassed but got a lot of male attention. I bought a cheap ring that looked like a wedding ring and it almost all stopped.
wtf i didnt know travelling solo as a girl gave off the vibes that she hooks up... is that why several guys suggested the possibility of hooking up, knowing that i travel solo?
I'm male solo traveller and yeah this is pretty common also . I don't get it, I'm just trying to walk around and see some cool shit. Thailand was a fucking nightmare . I couldn't walk anywhere without people grabbing me and trying to pull my into buildings. Like wtf is that about? I don't know what's behind those doors. I got the hell out of that country within a week . Fuck that place.
A lot of media portrays solo traveling as a sort of rumspringa for young, hot, single people, so I get why someone would have that idea, but it's a weird thing to assume and a weird thing to say to somebody.
I mean yes. The idea of a WOMAN doing something alone without permission or seeking approval from men just seems outrageous to the world. 

Solo travelling ladies bingo: 1) get asked out by hosts/hotel clerks/tour guides 2) if you're married, or have a partner, get asked "they LET you travel by yourself?!", 3) "wHy do You TraVeL alOne??? Where are your fRIenDS???", 4) eventually end up dressing like a gremlin and putting on a bitch face to get left in peace. 

Feel free to add yours.
30s gay man here and travel solo at least once per year - and I don't do it to hool up with people

Sometimes it happens but the point is the travel, sun, and recharging.
I love the anonymity that comes with being over 40 and a little, uh, "over-fed." No one bothers me.
It's absolutely crazy that some people think "all women travel solo to hook up". I would never even consider doing that when I'm traveling.
I can imagine in cultures where women don't typically act independently people may see a solo traveling woman as "free" in all kinds of ways, although that's speculation. When I traveled solo in my late teens and 20s I definitely got unwanted and often pushy attention from men who made assumptions about me. I'm now in my 40s and it doesn't happen any more.

I do not travel to hook up, and never have, but I do bring condoms with me because I'm not completely opposed if I met somebody kind, smart, charming and attractive. It would still take a lot for me to feel safe hooking up in a foreign and unfamiliar environment, though. It's not something I prioritize and I suspect it will never happen.
I have literally never heard of this stereotype, ever. Don't even think this is a real thing! I heard a lot of things when I was in my twenties that are so utterly bogus It only took age and experience to realize the depth of how stupid it was. This sounds like one of those things.
TIL that putting pictures on Instagram means looking for sex

Jk i get what you mean, but for me the essence of solo travel is that you can do what you want and noone needs to care - if they do it doesn't matter because you'll soon be somewhere else. There's way more solo travellers who aren't interested in that kinda thing than are, the ones you see are just the loudest
People who think this obviously need a better sex life if they are so concerned with other people's. Women can hook up or not, it's no one else's business.
Female traveler here - I avoid men when I travel at all costs. And women. And people in general.
It’s because most men cannot grasp the idea that women are actual 3D people just like them and have full lives with hobbies, interests, personalities, desires, goals, you name it. They look at women like they only exist to please men in some way and that’s it. They can’t imagine you, a girl going on a solo trip without them being centered in their own mind.
I had coworkers who insisted I must hook up when I traveled to Brasil and questioned me relentlessly when I returned. They didn't want to believe I didn't sleep with guys there. It was weird and I was too young to fully understand that they were just shitty people without boundaries and some of them wanted to sleep with me. I never heard anything like this again after I removed all these people from my life.
I would never hook up with anyone in a foreign country. Tbh I would never hook up with a random in my home country let alone somewhere else. As a woman it’s too much of a risk, both from a personal safety perspective being alone with someone I don’t know, and also a health perspective (could this person have an STI, what if I got pregnant etc)

My trips are for me and hooking up with people is the last thing on my mind. I just don’t think I’d find sleeping with strangers enjoyable at all, and if anyone made me feel shitty about it I’d cut them out.
Often when I meet locals, or new people when I return home after my travels, they have this notions that I’ve slept around or hook up with many people… which couldn’t be further from the from reality. I have the same sentiment as you. Ultimately people are entitled to belief whatever they so choose, it’s a reflection of their beliefs, not mine. 

Some will perpetuate distrust moving forward as they feel I’m not being honest, which again is their belief system, and it doesn’t match me so I create space
I've met plenty of people,  men and women who were out traveling.  Their main goal was traveling, not to get laid.  Their friends back home think there out getting lucky every night,  which is not the case.  Maybe it's different for different age groups.  This was for 30's somethings.
Hooking up is never even on my mind when travelling. When I’m at home and want to hook up, I take the usual safety precautions - send all his info to my besties, our exact location, when I expect to be done (so they can call for help if needed), and maybe even take a little kitchen knife with me just in case. That’s a lot harder to do when abroad. 

Also, I’m just not in the right mood or mindset. I’m not spending time shaving in shitty little showers, I’m not doing my hair, honestly not even showering as much as I regularly do. I’m re wearing clothes. I have no room in my backpack for sexy clothes (though I did roll up to my last hookup in sweats and a hoodie, so maybe that doesn’t really matter). And I’m TIRED. I’ve got no energy to a) find someone and then b) sleep with them. Hell nah.
People are quick to overlook how much of a risk it is to travel solo as a female. Adding random hookups to the mix puts you at an even higher likelihood of being in a risker/dangerous situation.
Each to their own. Do what you want to do. But also don’t judge others who do hook up. Doesn’t sound like you do.
Some people think that we are all led around by our sex drives.   If we let it lead us around, it will. There are some of us who prefer to keep it under control.

I learned long ago how to be in control of it rather than letting it be in control of me. I am much happier when it's under control. 

Every now and then I will meet somebody who just assumes that since I am not in a relationship or married, that I randomly hook up with men.  My response?  I'm not a slut and I don't do random hook ups.   The guys who say this to me are generally at dances or karaoke.  

I have read about women who make a point of finding guys to hook up with...more power to them.   Not my bag.
“I’m totally fine being single for months” 


^(oh the disparity)
I'm out of this loop. Not sure where you're from but I don't get this impression or have these thoughts when women tell me they travel solo. (I'm in the Toronto area) When someone else tells me they travel solo, I'm more like "Hell yeah! That's my vibe too!" I love being able to do whatever I want when travelling. 
I've hung out with other solo female travellers while travelling on many occasions. It's been just someone else who is down to see something cool, swap stories or just hangout.
But I've only recently had the resources to solo travel in my 30s and am a light sleeper so I can't do the non-private rooms if I'm in hostels. Also I'm too old to give a sh*t what others think of my travels. If I did care, I would not have gone to many of the destinations that I've gone to and would be in that tourist bubble trying to curate new content for instagram or whatever. 
I think you should just do you. People are going to think whatever they want. You can't control that. But you can continue to be awesome and pursue travel and experiences that probably makes them jealous. People sometimes try to bring other people down or make them feel bad about themselves when they're jealous.
I've  only hooked up once.  And I was not the initiator. Turned out she was nuts. Now when I travel getting together isn't the goal
I also never hook up

Not because I don't want to, but because I'm kind of ugly and my personality is bad
I don’t even travel that much but I was doing solo backpacking trips and just taking simple overnights and weekends out of town to  have adventures. It had never even crossed my mind that for some reason there’s a whole demographic of people out there that believed I had to be hooking up with men everywhere I went. 

When I started dating my boyfriend he said that it really put him off and that’s just not in line with his values… I started asking around and a shocking number of people (not a majority but enough I was shocked) were under the impression that that’s just what travel/adventure girls do. 

I was appalled to find out that perspective and that that’s what some of my peers thought of me. There’s nothing wrong with that though the type of people that assumed that also applied some judgment. 

I educated my boyfriend but he’s still under the impression that I’m the exception. I don’t know why it’s hard to grasp the concept that a woman might travel to be alone, to see things for herself, and it might have nothing to do with sex. Or maybe she has sex but it’s never the goal… or maybe it is the goal… but weird assumption. 

I know that for my boyfriend the only “travel girlies” he interacted with DID want to hook up…because the ones that didn’t were too busy doing other things to be chatting him up. So I can kind of see how he got there… 

Still hate that concept though. Can’t we just do something for ourselves and not have it have to do with male attention?
All I know is that all the guys I told I was travelling stopped talking to me on Bumble. So… Possibly a case of projection because they are unlikely to turn anyone down if offered sex.
I have no interest in hooking up in general so I def stay away from it while solo traveling. I have been asked to hookup a few times which can get a bit annoying!
Yes. It’s so hard for people to believe a single woman is financially stable and loves to travel and be alone. I actually see it as a low ball hateful comment to summarize the life of a stranger and call them a sex tourist. Goes to show you what a stupid world full of degenerates we live amongst. Look at how many women sell their cooter on OF and don’t even travel. I also don’t hook up with anyone, and honestly, love to be left alone.
I find sleeping with strangers risky and unsafe so I don't do it but I do a lot of solo travel! You're not alone OP. I travel to travel. If I wanted sex I would look for sex. When I traveled with a large group of young guys all they wanted was sex with locals and that was probably the most boring part of the trip ... watching them flirt, waste money on bottle service, and sit glued to tinder.

I have no idea why you'd go to France to sit on your phone and swipe on girls you'll never see again.
Well who did you hear that from?

Someone whose opinions you respect?
I don’t hook up as a female travel solo, I’m always afraid to lose my kidneys. 
I found more joy meeting other people, hearing their experiences, enjoying myself, meeting locals, etc.
As someone has hooked up with several solo travelers i would say this is case by case basis.
I've noticed that's the expectation when I stay in a hostel. I've since aged out of those and stay mostly in solo rooms and I feel like the stigma went away
I (m) travel a lot solo and when i do i hang out with both woman and men. But i never heard someone assume that woman who travel solo want to hook up.
Yep, you were dealing with an incel.
I am a female solo traveller and I also do not travel for sex. I’m happily married! We give each other the space and trust to solo travel when we need a break from the daily grind of life. We do family travels too. So yes I can sympathize because every once in a while someone will completely not understand how it is possible to be a woman and travel for fun and not sex and not cheat. Drives me bonkers when I come across one of these folks. They always ask a tonne of questions to test me. Last one was an underevolved colleague. It bothers me because I can tell they don’t believe me nor trust my morals and I detest being not believed for something that is true. However, I intellectually know it ultimately only matters what my husband and I think and we have a solid relationship with great trust.
i solo travel too and never hook up. i bet it’s their fantasies lol
totally understand…my work mate was like “which guy paid for your trip” when I small talked about my solo trip, disgusting🙄
Yes! I’ve learned most people project their insecurities and nasty wishes onto others because they’re simply jealous
I'm a guy, so when I travel solo I'm invisible. Nobody tried to flirt with me, or even tried to speak with me. I don't even remember people looking at me other than the most basic contact with waiters and staff.

You're probably attractive to some guys and that's the entire experience. They wanna try their chance with you, because it's easier than trying it with a girl who is walking with his boyfriend. I would not worry about it, unless they are actually insulting you or trying to force you.
Yes I've head many dudes online say this, and people irl saying they're not comfortable with their partner travelling alone because they will inevitably cheat. I've travelled alone a lot and I've not slept with one person or wanted to. I don't argue with people because tbh to each their own but I feel like if your partner is going to cheat on you, they will find a way to do it regardless of whether they're on their own or not
Silly woman. Don't you know that unless you are a side character in a man's life you simply blink out of existence?
my boyfriend and I stayed at a Hostel in Germany, and ended up in a foursome with him and 2 other guys and the next night we hooked up with a couple from Croatia. I swear Hostels are like a swingers club for young people.
Uhg why can’t us girls just live
Men might be saying this to you as a manipulation tactic
No one has ever said anything like that to me. The most related comments I have ever got where people asking “where are the hottest girls?” But maybe the experience as a man is different.
If you’re there for the main differentiator of traveling (being in a new place) instead of the social aspect, then yeah it’s completely normal not to hook up
Why must everything be sexualized? lol. Glad you are out there enjoying the world
this post is kinda judgemental, slut-shamey and has pick-me energy, sorry. if a woman, or man, actively enjoys hooking up on travels who cares?
I think it’s this way because in my personal solo traveling adventures everyone I have met have hooked up or have had many or multiple sexual partners during their solo travels. Again, it’s not generalized that it’s all woman, but that seems to be the general case in my own personal experience of meeting people and hearing their own stories.
I can guarentee than 90% of Indian guys think that, especially the ones who have never had any female interaction till marriage. I can't remember the number of times I have heard that from prospective arranged marriage partners.

P.S not into arranged marriage since then. Solo, female, Indian traveller.
It’s not judgement, it’s natural behave. Travellers meet people and want sex. Even people in relationships when they travel alone they have sex. You could think they are cheating but it’s just once stand , nothing harmful
ive solo traveled and ive noticed lots of people be fucking in the hostels
I mean I’ve never heard that.

Sometimes I’ve heard of flings or them doing it for places to stay. Which I don’t fully blame.

Usually the sex tourism idea is for dudes

Girls can get laid anywhere they don’t need to go abroad.
Sounds like the kind of thing someone would say to gaslight you.
Most men have porn brain so it’s not surprising they think this.  Very gross though and also gives no thought to OUR SAFETY!
Cut to shot of me sitting alone in my fancy 5-star hotel rooms, ordering delivery, and chillin’ on my balcony like men basically don’t exist. #solofemaletravelerlife
> Did any of you also had a problem with being misjudged like this?

What problem are you having exactly?
… sex tourism? Just because you hook up with someone while traveling doesn’t make it “sex tourism”. You sound a little judgy. I mean just because a girl has pics on her instagram doesn’t make her a skank. Heaven forbid you have a photo on YOUR insta!
Asking to hook up with another traveler is not sex tourism. 

The people you meet assume you’re single because you’re solo traveling. How would they know your values?

What part of being a single woman talking to other single men makes you surprised they ask to hook up?
Guys don't "think you're doing sex tourism" lol sounds like you have an image with self perception not being misjudged
Hooking up is very common with solo travelling, particularly for women (well, younger women at least). But equally plenty of people solo travel and have no hook ups, which is absolutely fine too.
Nobody thinks that way about solo travel
People mistake solo cruising with single cruises. Hook up can happen with both solo and non solo travelers.
Exactly! i am afraid that someone will do anything to me while I am by myself in another country
That’s great! as a guy that would meet you I would never assume that, I don’t know any guys that would. But please don’t be that person on dating apps looking for friends or “company because your lonely”
I am the same as you so dw youre not alone. 😇
I’ve solo traveled for over 2 decades as a woman and no one has ever made that assumption, and I have never hooked up with anyone nor wanted to. (For multiple reasons but safety was number one). I’m honestly befuddled.
I'm a guy and I've had a pretty high number of partners, but basically never when travelling solo because I just have better things to do. One exception is my trip to Berlin where I also went to some sex clubs and gay bathhouses, which was the main point of my trip. Otherwise I always did what I wanted to do and that never involved any bars or clubs.
Who cares what ppl say lol get over it
When i travel, my main goalnis to learn as much as I can about the place, and solely travel. Not hook up. So same 😊
I am married and just like travel. If I can't take a friend or my spouse I go alone. No interest in hooking up. I wouldn't assume screwing around is a given.
I've read this so often online and it's so strange to me. Let a woman do whatever she wants and don't make assumptions like "oh, she's solo travelling, she must be open to hooking up!". 

Personally, I've never had this problem. I do stay in hostels, but never party hostels (where hook up culture is more common I think). Some guys said I give off "sister vibes"
In my experience the guys who assume this are the ones who would do that if they were solo travelling. Also even if that’s what you wanted to do, weird them to get all judgey. In my 15 years of travelling solo I’ve never hooked up with anyone. I’m not 100% closed to the idea of meeting someone on a trip but it’s not the purpose of my travel and it seems unsafe AF to go be alone in an enclosed space with someone I just met. You can’t live your life in fear I guess but I definitely don’t seek out those hook ups because it seems like so much could go wrong. When meeting new people in m home city the first date is always in public, around a lot of people, and during the daytime whenever possible.
I'm the same, even when I was travelling during my mid 20s. Outside of a few one-offs with people I just had an instant connection with, most of the time I just couldn't be arsed going through all of that bother to have uninteresting sex in a hostel bed. 

There was only one time for me where I was a bit drunk, went back with someone, booked a hotel room for the night. It just felt seedy and I felt off the next day, just a bad gut feeling over it. 

Each to their own though, everyone's built different. It is a bit annoying in hostels though, being woken up or shaken awake by inconsiderate people banging. 

I can imagine it's a lot different as a woman though. I've seen and heard some very suspect people, especially when alcohol is involved. Even knew a girl who found out she was pregnant during her trip, can't imagine how heavy that would be to deal with.
No one has ever said anything to me. Now I wonder. 
People travel solo to have sex? 😱 First time I heard of that. I travel solo because I enjoy being by myself since I am an introvert and I like to travel. I do not have sex with just anyone. Others may do that but to each their own.
I was thinking omg what is this! And then remembered I did kiss someone once 😅
This is why I’m so glad that I finally look older. 

Men still try to ask me out all the time, but they’re much more respectful. And I don’t think I’ve encountered anyone who thought a woman in her fifties was looking for hookups. If I did they were quickly disabused because I have learned to say no in a way that gets them to stop without being angry. I basically act kind of maternal - easy enough as I often am old enough to be their mother 😂.

It’s also true that I’m living and thus traveling in Mexico where pretty much any guy will try it on but they aren’t aggressive or pushy in my experience.
I'm very introverted, and I never socialize when I travel alone, aside from casual small tall. I travel alone to... travel alone ffs.
I’ve never hooked up with anyone on my solo travels either! I get too busy exploring the city and at the end of the day, I’m tired yet content! :) And whenever I travel, I don’t have intentions of sleeping around either  Regarding being misjudged, don’t take it personally. It’s more of those kinds of guys trying their luck than them actually seeing you as someone doing that kind of tourism.
This is such a revelation for me. I never thought of it this way. Idk maybe because the circle I have includes a number of solo female travelers and never considered it. For those who do it, good for them for knowing what they want. But to assume that this is the default 🥴
Man, I didn’t go this far to only crawl to someone’s … hostel bed.
People who travel solo hook up? That is news to me, I mean, I know it can happen, but I thought it was something unexpected that randomly happened not something that would be an expectation.

I'm a woman and have traveled solo, I travel to see historical monuments, see new cultures, sample local cuisines and experience other countries. And yes, I like taking pictures, many of them. Hooking up with anyone has never been on my radar.
I don’t do that lol. Like at all. I solo travel to grow as a person. Who says sex is the only way to grow as a person?
Good way to pick up excess baggage! I think hooking up on travels happens because ppl are usually in good mood and drinking.
Wow I didn’t know it was the vibe. I am also a female solo traveler, most of the time because my husband doesn’t like travel that much. I met both male and female travelers and we went out for meals and exchanged information, shared our stories. It was fun! And I always told people ahead of time that I am married, sometimes I would say I had children (lie). But if I sense that vibe, I would turn away. I mostly stay in hostels, female dorm only and I don’t do night activities. 
This Reddit post is the first time in my entire life that I have ever heard the claim that "all solo traveling girls hook up."
lol what never heard this in my life 
this thought has never crossed my mind
Stereotypes are the worst. Always. I am a solo male traveler and when I hear stereotypes about solo travelers, especially women, I want to break something. Travelers travel to experience and learn about new countries and cultures, not for sex. Have I hook up with anyone on my trips? Yes, but that is not my purpose of travel. Is there anything wrong with that? No, but thinking that everyone does it is just disgusting.
Damn. Is that what people think? I'm a solo travelling female and have never had anyone make comments like these, but I wonder if people secretly believe I'm constantly hooking up (I never do). Not that I really care. Let them think 😁
Is the term hook up the issue here? It's not well defined even for native English speakers, I'm guessing it's even more distorted when translated. 


I'd say a lot of solo travellers are open to romance, if it happens it's usually meaningful even if short lived, they're not easy goodbyes. Doesn't mean they're with a different partner every night.



 Of course I'm sure a lower percentage are frequent fliers and that's cool too. As is never having sex while travelling. 


And how people dress and post on Instagram has nothing to with anything.
Never was aware this was a thing. But I solo travel. Don’t stay in any place long enough for a hook up to happen.

We do live in a hook up
Culture though so it can be odd not to part of it. Took me a few years not to feel odd anyway. But it’s your life, your boundaries. And that’s all ya can build on
I solo travel and barely talk to anyone. 😆
Good, don’t hook up while solo traveling, take from a fool who caught feelings, it hurts even more when you realize the reality of circumstance even if there is a chance at a true relationship.
There's more to travel than fucking...
american girls fuck a lot. especially in the balkans
It’s just a form of peer pressure to get you to hook up.   It has no bearing in what others are doing but it has the potential to make you feel like you’re different and should follow the crowd. 

Just ignore and do what you like doing
This is news to me!
I wouldn’t hook up with a stranger in a foreign country as a woman. Way too much risk in that. If you are happy and safe with your current ways, keep doing it. Who cares what anyone else thinks!
If someone said that to me, it’d be a big red flag. 

In my opinion, there’s nothing wrong with hooking up and there’s nothing wrong with not hooking up. 

But now, if you assume that the sole reason for a woman to travel alone is to hook up you have some narrow mindset I don’t want around me.
Yes. 100% can relate to this. I didn’t even know this was a label or a belief until I was almost done with my trip lol.
The men who say that are telling on themselves because that’s what they’re doing when they travel. I’ve traveled solo a lot in my life, and have I ever hooked up with a guy while traveling? Sure. Was that my main goal? Certainly not. Men are the ones who engage in sex tourism.
I’m a married woman and I just started solo traveling 2 years ago!
I've travelled for 8 months now and haven't hooked up with anyone in hostels. Locals, however, that's a different matter
Odd.  I've traveled solo for 10 years and never heard that
“Guys still think that?”  
Uhhh no.  
Guys not think about you, yo. This isn’t the you show, this is the BathTubBand show. Haha jk its all our show.  Peace and love to ya! :)
“Hooking up” is definitely not what all solo female travelers do. If you enjoy it, do it. If you don’t want to, don’t.

If a guy is saying this, he’s an asshole. It’s a pressure tactic.
Shoot as man, one of the best parts of traveling solo is the ability to hookup with any shame of opinions from friends or family. But, if that's not your thing, that's okay as well. 

But, a vacation fling can make a good vacation, a fantastic and emotionally satisfying adventure
I know some people that do it/have done it but I never came upon this as a major stereotype and I definitely have not seen it be prevalent.
No, never had a problem with people assuming this of me lol (and I travel solo a lot)
I've traveled solo for 3 decades now. The assumption that I'd want to hook up has declined in proportion with my hair becoming more and more grey.
male solo traveler, I seem to get more traction while traveling. I guess it means no strings really means no strings and they don't have to worry about me catching feelings since i'll be gone in a week. 

As for women I sort of assumed it's the same advances and such regardless traveling or living your daily life.
I solo travel and haven’t heard this and I don’t do hookups. I also date to marry and don’t even like dating. 

No one has mentioned this to me and at this point I probably wouldn’t care what they thought. Their opinion is a reflection of them and not me. 

Enjoy your travels!
I solo travel and will hook up but if I am really feeling it. It is still icky if I feel that expectation from someone. Sorry you feel that pressure. People just suck
I guess it depends on what age you are and where you travel to. When I was in Las Vegas earlier this year I met a woman around my age (I'm 41). She was a bit drunk and made it pretty clear she was looking for a guy and was pretty open about having only been with guys like me when she take girls trips to the Caribbean.
bro i solo travel a lot and i dont hear ppl say that to me when i go places. i guess it depends how u approach things. if u genuinely just like to go there to enjoy the view or what have u then ur good no need to worry about anything else
I guess it depends on people. I recently met two women who openly said they were looking for hook ups during solo travel. I was shocked.  

As for me, I travel for new food and restaurants 😂
Why is some rando's opinion important to you? A lot of people have travel hookups and a lot don't, who cares which camp a person who doesn't know you puts you in?
Not at all. 

I’ve been to I think 7 counties on my own in the past year, and have only hooked up in one of them. Not much of a hookup-while-traveling person and also not much of a drinker so I avoid scenes like clubbing and bars while solo. I don’t think this is weird. Some of us would rather spend the finite amount of time they have exploring a place than another person. Totally normal, never felt judged for it (but also, no ones ever asked me either).

Some dudes can be uncomfortable and clingy though, and that’s when I usually just split off completely and go fully alone
Enjoy
I just get labeled a lesbian 🤷🏾‍♀️ lbs
I dress to be comfortable, makeup only gets applied for special occasions or if I'm feeling jazzy. I'm shy at first and I haven't posted much on Insta in years. At least they still think you're sexy enough to be doing that lol, but I think people just think social media is real life.
I didn't know that this is what is being assumed for solo female travelers. If anything, I think it would be more common for guys. Although I did encounter maybe one or two instances of two persons meeting up at a hostel and ended up hooking up (don't know if they ended up traveling together afterwards). It's one of those instances where they "do the deed" in a huge dorm room where the only division is a thin shear curtain fabric.
Because I’ve traveled solo for decades I would often have at least one meal at a bar alone each trip. Men see a woman sitting alone and assume we’re looking for a hookup. I’ve never found that type of encounter even remotely tempting. I’ll chat with anyone but I make it clear they aren’t following me out of the restaurant. Most men are ok with that and there’s only been two times recently when they’ve acted creepy about it.
i think my wife would be angry if i was hooking up during solo travels LOL. I go for the experience, to see and do things on my schedule that im interested in, not to get lucky
My friends always think that I’m with a guy when I say that I travel solo. Same values sis - date to marry!
Never heard this sentiment. I assume the same from someone single traveling solo as meeting someone single at home in a bar: might be interested, might be not.

In my experience people are a bit more open to a fling while traveling than at home. But that's not an expectation I have or something. Sex tourism especially is fucking wild. And would think that's way more an expectation from men than women.
I don't hook up with people when I solo travel. Never been questioned on it though, it's never come up in conversation.
I have hooked up one time each solo travel and it just makes me feel icky and empty lol
The only people who think this way are the ones that live this way. 

Its Kind of one of those questions that guys ask that tells me more about them, than they get from the answer.

I am probably to independent and dominant to care about “ misjudgement “.  So there is that. 

So if I run across someone like this, I lean into it and play along with all their thoughts. Where do I get the hot men? What are we doing? How do I keep it secret?  What do I do when I come back home to the states?  

Then I m done with the entertainment aspect I say “nope. Not me. “   They are usually left holding the bag of stupidity.  I mean, You just have to enjoy all of dating. 

I let them mull over what they have disclosed and we move on to the next topic.
Do whatever the fuck you want, when you want. Those who matter won’t mind, those who mind don’t matter.
I solo travel a lot and I also rarely hook up while traveling. I enjoy my sleep and waking up early for hikes and wildlife.
No, I never travel for sex and it's funny how many men seem to jump right to that conclusion/have that as sole purpose in mind. Have I let it organically happen the once or twice it has after partying somewhere during a trip? Sure, but it's never "omg I better have sex with someone"
Never did and never will. People may assume what they want but I know my principles well and would stick with it. Even a "friend" of the same gender judged me and insinuated stuff they thought I do while travelling solo, I didn't have to explain stuff to them. And I didn't.

And she made these judgements just because I had a couple of discussions with close friends about each of our past and sexual history. So I mentioned about a very attractive rebound guy that I met. Just one guy and she judged me to be someone who is into hookups. Hell! Society just assumes things.
It must be common, because I'm a solo f traveling SE Asia and am in my late 60's. I had a young local guy in Bali assume I was looking for a [don't know what you call it]. I was like no thank you. Of course, in my case, I guess I was expected to be very generous with money.

At my age, I almost took it as a compliment - at least I still appear to be someone who might be sexually active lol. 

People wonder why you're traveling solo and sometimes make crazy assumptions.
I never hooked up when travelling. That's not the reason why I travel.
I totally feel you on this! It’s so annoying how people assume solo travelers are out there just to hook up. Like, some of us just genuinely love exploring on our own without any other agenda. It’s great that you’re sticking to what you believe in and doing your own thing, though. People will always have their opinions, but at the end of the day, you’re the one living your life.
Where is this idea that all solo traveler girls are doing it to hook up? I have a girls travel group of 18 I’ve been in a group chat with since like 2016 and I think maybe 2 of us do hookups and definitely not on the regular. We all travel at least twice a year, and most of us travel solo once a year or more.
> and I’m totally fine being single for months.

Hmm... 🤔everything ok... But... You saying "for months" as if it is the big thing makes me believe people isn't missjudging you at all
I solo travel so that I could be by myself lol so I get this perspective.
I think it’s because men have this mindset when they travel they tend to put it in others
It sounds like someone was trying to get you to let your guard down

I dont do it either for safety reasons in most cases
Wowww I never knew girls were doing sex tourism also 🙄😳😳😂
Where are you travelling that people think this?

I’ve done several solo trips to Europe and have never had an issue.

The only place I was harassed non stop despite dressing extremely conservatively was Morocco.
Yes. Men think if you are out of the house alone you are up for grabs.
Yes, definitely. I’m a woman who has solo travelled to about 60 countries. I have never once had sex while travelling alone. 

For me, the assumption is particularly harmful because I’m married. I would never hurt my husband like that and thankfully haven’t been tempted. But I hate that people make the assumption that I might because I like to explore new places.
I have never seen how someone would feel safe enough to hookup randomly, let alone thousands of miles from home.
I’m a man and on my last trip solo to Thailand (36y when I went there), wherever I stayed I actually started conversations with several girls but didn’t hook up, they where travelling solo and as I know some places from previous trips I guess they enjoyed the company and extra safety of being with someone… I not going to lie that most of them where really pretty but I wasn’t looking for one night stands or anything, so having company for spending days and conversations was really the point… So, it was sort of a win for both sides… not everyone travelling is looking for hook ups I guess…
Same here. I've just learned that such view exists from your reddit topic 😯🫣
Kinda wild to think that “hooking up solo traveler girls” are on the rarer side in my society. At least that’s what I’m aware of.
No. Find better friends.
Whoever told you that is beyond ignorant and should be laughed at.
I never thought of this before but on my last trip I did observe that two bunk mates in our 6 bed room ended up hooking up. Then a few stays before that I know of people hooking up with others in a different room.
Yeah I don't understand this. Why would you just assume that's what a woman who enjoys travelling on her own is doing? People are silly! Enjoy your travels however you see fit. I enjoy my solo travels because I can make my own schedule and don't have to worry about what someone else wants to do! I like travelling with others too but there are advantages to solo travel like that.
First time I hear this. I always hooked up with solo travelers. You are the exception for sure.
Happens some.  I would guess not the majority.  Saying in hostels, wearing the same clothes over and over.   A lot of times it's hard to feel sexy.
I do lol I think having a vacation/trip hookup really enhances the travel experience.
Some of the language in your previous posts suggests that you might be projecting your feelings on to other people. 

Maybe work on being less shy, more assertive and communicating better up front?
Theres this weird concept in incel circles that if girls go on trips (girls trips, solo trips etc.) they are only doing it to cheat/hook up ?!?

They’re projecting and are bitter they cant afford it themselves and that women can do it in their own. 

Do not pay attention to anyone who says shit like that. And even if you did dress sexy, why would that matter
Yeah I get that a lot. It really sucks. On multiple occasions I’ve had to bail on different activities (often pricy ones) because some man just wouldn’t accept me saying no. Awful.
For me, the purpose of solo travels is exploring other cultures, their customs, their cuisine, etc. I'm honestly not interested in casual hookups.
“First off, I’m sorry you’ve had to experience this. It takes strength to stay true to your values, especially when others misjudge or misunderstand. I can relate as I am also a solo traveler and my Christian values are important to me as well. 
Solo travel is such a brave and empowering thing to do, and it’s inspiring that you’re focused on self-discovery and growth. Just remember that their assumptions say more about them than about you. You’re setting your own path, and the right people will respect and appreciate that. Keep shining and know you’re not alone; many of us have been misjudged for standing by our values. You’re doing amazing!”
"single for months" lol 
And there you have it folks
Yes, I have a girlfriend now but one night stands always made me feel absolutely awful about myself. So I just never did them.
I’m a solo traveler and currently single. I’m open to connecting with locals or fellow travelers, as long as they are straight, biological women, as I’m a heterosexual man. I prefer to avoid encounters with those who are involved in sex work or one-night stands, as I find them unsatisfying and emotionally unfulfilling. This is why I’ve chosen not to engage in or support those types of experiences, especially when payment is involved. However, I am fine with casual encounters that are mutually fun or could potentially lead to a meaningful relationship. In any situation that is not part of a committed relationship, I would always use protection. Call it what you will, but that’s where I stand.
I just went in my first solo cruise. The hookup culture just wasn’t my thing. It was fun, but definitely a different vibe.
I recently discovered that there are some men that think this way about solo female travelers and it was such a strange revelation. This opinion doesn’t usually come from anyone who is well travelled so it’s best not to care about their opinion while they sit there with no passport. Much like other questionable preconceived notions, usually they are had by people we are better off not interacting with. It’s a great red flag indicator if a man thinks this way. Those judging women for being a solo female traveler are clearly too close minded to date one of us and should keep it pushing and leave us alone 😊
I go to music festivals and concerts by myself because I want to just do my own thing and not have to worry about anybody else. I don’t wanna have to get up from my seat to go get snacks and go to the bathroom during a show. I don’t wanna have to get up at 5:30 AM the next morning so we can beat the traffic on the interstate. I just wanna do my thing for the music. We go do other things together after I get home. The boyfriend is cool with that because he’s at work anyway and likes handling his own work situation and I handle mine, so we’re a good match! I trust him. He trusts me, that’s how it supposed to work. 

Let’s also add to that: he would rather jump off a bridge than listen to some of the music I like   🤣😂😎and I would never make him go with me. Example: Hard Rock show or R&B is NOT for him.  We go see country artists together though.  I like everything!
I’ve never hooked up when traveling solo, that just sounds like a recipe for so many things to go wrong. But I’ve dated guys who had that thought in their head and would get mad at me for not inviting them on my trip or not canceling if they can’t join, and it was super frustrating because like, I’m not like that at home, why would I do that in a different country??
If I’m feeling lonely I’ll usually try to find someone cool from one of my tours so I at least have someone to grab dinner with, but they are usually female (I’m F, straight) and if not I pick someone who seems nonthreatening otherwise.
I've been solotraveling for 7 years full time and have only hooked up with 3 travelers in that time. Granted, I'm more focused on meeting locals and building community in local settings, so that might have something to do with it. I also dated someone for 4 years in Mexico, so that might have something to do with it. I'm also in my mid-30s and finding myself the majority of the time just completely over hooking up and craving intimacy more, so that might have something to do with it.
I am a woman who travels a lot and I have also heard this from time to time.  I have a significant other, and am not the least bit interested in other men.  (Or women, for that matter.)  I dress for comfort and don´t even wear make up, so I don´t think I am giving out those vibes.  I am thinking about getting an inexpensive wedding ring to wear when I travel, haha.  Hold up your hand, show the ring, say I am the faithful type and on a business trip, so no time for anything else.  That (minus the ring, which I am actually thinking is a good idea) has worked well for me.
My long-time best friend couldn’t understand that I’ve never hooked up when travelling solo. Even when meeting a group of mostly male friends and travelling together. We are friends. That’s it. I don’t hook up when I’m home, so I’m not suddenly going to do a 180 once I go away. It’s been well over 10 years, I couldn’t care less.
The fact that OP had to write 

>NO PRIVATE MESSAGES

is what is wrong with people. Stop being creeps.
I’ve noticed regular solo travellers don’t do much hooking up, but the ones that go on “spiritual journeys to find myself” hook up more often. They’re usually the ones that typically want to impress other people anyway, and having extravagant sexcapades feed into that validation. 

Im not trying to vilify it at all, I’ve done it myself too, this is just anecdotal. I find that the first group topically hook up with people that they actually connect with in some way, while the second group simply want to hook up and “it adds to the plot”
People always will assume whatever they want. It’s good to have that values.
I only traveled solo once. I guess I’m lucky that most reactions I get when people learned I’m traveling solo, is that they’re proud of how brave i am.  

But after reading all your comments, I feel like I am so ugly for not getting hit on 😂
Most men think all women are texting 40 guys at a time and secretly doing OF. Those are small percentages of men who don't have a working brain of their own. You know what you do on travel and whatever it is is none of their business. Keep enjoying your trips.
You’re fine beaing single for MONTHS? Wow 🤡
The actual reality of the situation is that as much fun as random hookups are, women traveling solo are typically looking out for their safety above all.
I am a man and I have done quite a lot of solo traveling but I never hooked up until I met my wife during one of those trips. When I was single I mostly hooked up if I thought there could be a relationship in it.
We are all different, me for one don't enjoy sex if there are no feelings involved.
I’ve never dated local so I do so when I travel. Doesn’t guarantee a hook up but all my boyfriends for the last 6 years are foreign so…
No and I don't understand why to create a post about something that is common knowledge. Most people who want or a open for hookups do party trips and don't follow the "typical" solo travel style with doing and seeing as much as possible without party and going to bed early. Most solo travelers stay in hostels and having no private bedroom makes it hard to sleep with someone because it disturbs all the others.
Never done that on any of my holidays. Saying that I am asexual! 😅
I will be taking my first solo camping/hiking trip single and im so excited . I also wouldn’t mind meeting new people and being friendly, but sex is not on my mind….
Eh don't focus on it. Someone told me the more you focus on something the more it becomes true because that's what you put your attention to. It becomes a self-fulfilling prophecy - "Everyone thinks solo traveling girls hook up, so everyone must think I'm traveling to hook up".

Though, if you're seeing *a lot* of people who think this way, you might be connecting with the wrong people.
I am solo traveller and never hooked up, however all my friends and co-workers think that I go just for sex. Well, in my opinion I could hook up here in my country and no be exposed to danger abroad, because the most sure you will get scammed or robbed when you don’t know how to act
To each their own. On my last 35 day trip to Brazil, I had only one day in which I did not have sex. Personally, I could care less how people judge me, and I hope you feel the same way about how people judge you.

EDIT: I should clarify that in 34 days there were only four different sex partners.
I travel solo, dress feminine and sexy, post online and I have never had a hookup nor casual sex, I’ve also never had sex abroad. It’s not you.  Not your problem people assume and have insecurities.
Me neither. And after watching "The Berlin Syndrome" i never will. 😂

And I also don't dress sexy. In the summer when I travel, I am a sweat fountain. I wear confortable clothes. Less chances of being harassed or robbed if you dress plain.
My darling, it's called "projection." 

They are telling you what they do/would do in that same scenario.
Sex tourism?!
...sorry, what?

I didn't understand anything from your post. What are you saying?
I admit I just assume solo travelers who stay in hostels are there for easy hook ups. Why would you solo travel to immediately socialize with a bunch of people if not for sharing a common goal of easy sex?
I travel solo and the thought never crossed my mind
Good values! Don’t change! 👍
Weird. Most of the solo travelling women I know tend to avoid this due to safety issues but 🤷🏼‍♀️ 
I lived next to a hostel, and got to meet many visitors of all walks, old, young, male and female. Some guys were often disappointed that "female travelers are on a real agenda to see the sights etc."
Plenty of men, especially online, and even more so on reddit, assume everything a woman does is either for sex or men. They can't fathom a woman would have interests or hobbies outside of that 🤣
Never say never
As a travel solo female I have not experienced thus ever.
I probably would never hook up with anyone on a solo trip as a woman. It’s scary out there. You never know who people actually are. I would only hook up with people on trips where I know others who are in the vicinity
(M41) Whenever I go, I am being judged by people that I am looking for sex. When in reality I only travel around and enjoy what I have left in this life, which is travel.

People will always judge you. My advice, learn to ignore what others have to say about you. Stick up to your beliefs and don't change them for others.
incels coming up with reasons to hate women having hobbies. i know a lot of solo travelers and none of them act like this
Lets travel together as frinds, i am Brazilian i can go anywhere in the world but its easier in south america
First, it's sad but true that you had to say no private messages.

I love solo travel. There are zero expectations, I can check out all the nerdy crap the anthropologist me wants to see, and if I want to catch a last minute concert then it's waaaaaay easier to find a single ticket versus two or four. But because I am active, people's first question isn't OMG where did you find that amazing graffiti (Trastevere, btw)?! It's "how many chicks" or whatever.

At least there's some basis for hometown people responding that way, but regardless that's not what defines me or my travel experiences. I don't choose my destinations based on prowess, and it's not on my mind while I'm trying to climb Synthetic Happiness at Red Rock.
Few observations from the comments; 
* I’ve stayed in hostels in 60+ countries across 6 continents and have only encountered others going at it in my room once. 
* I have been the culprit of hooking up on occasion (very small percentage based on the amount of travel) but have found somewhere discreet, so as not to disturb/offend/upset/etc anyone
* I have NEVER encountered a hostel with an age cap, as one person said (I’m currently in a hostel and am 40+)
* I have been propositioned and made feel very uncomfortable by men in an array of countries and have resorted to the fake wedding ring also..
* My last partner of 5 years was someone I met traveling, as we connected through our similar mindset, after connecting due to copious amounts of alcohol the first night! 

But, to that aside, my main purpose of travelling is seeing new places, experiencing new cultures, meeting new people and just living life - that’s why I travel!  Every person is entitled to their own individual, judgement free, reason. Just live your life and stop worrying about what people expect/think about you, travel for whatever reason you want to!
I also travelled solo and didn't hook up, even if I probably could have. Just enjoy your travels, it's a privilege to have that solo time and ability to see the world. I just relax and get some nice foods and pics.
Give a chance to this society to put insulting labels on girls and they are never going to leave it.
Hi! I am a female  traveler and I have a parttner  and sometimes I like to travel or go out by myself (and I indeed love my parttner). You should not worry about this social pressure, it all depends  what travelling means to you. For me is a way of expressing  myself, conecting with myself, feeling free, and have fun. Fun does not have to mean casual sex only. If you feel one day like having casual sex or just kissing, go for it and enjoy. But I don't think  there should have a check-list od female travel behavior we should try to achieve.
There is no right or wrong way to travel.  Do what feels right, but be open for the moment. Magic can happen very fast, you never know when it’ll pop up.  Sometimes it’s not a hook up for sex but just human encounters that are sought while exploring the new.
Yeah I’ve experienced this… also guys in conservative countries who assume that western women are “easy” and harass you for hookups…

Tbh I don’t care too much what people assume I do because not hooking up is a personal decision for me but I don’t have negative opinions about women who do so it doesn’t bother me if people think that I do.  But it does bother me when they use that assumption as an excuse to be pushy in their advances.
“all solo traveling girls hook up” is such an ignorant statement.  Yes — there are girls AND guys who travel solo or with a group who do this.  I have friends who have done it.  Some people don’t…I don’t, and I have traveled solo a bunch of times.  There are times when I traveled solo, I was by myself in not-so-crowded places like in Iceland, the Dolomites, national parks in the US… there’s no way I would’ve wanted to be with a stranger where no one would know if something happens to me.  

Also, this has nothing to do with if you dress sexy or not, or if you put pictures of yourself on Instagram or not… none of that equates to someone hooking up or not when they solo travel
Im a solo traveling male, and whenever im hanging out wuth friends and i bring any story or anecdote about one of my travels, ppl always say "ehhh i bet you got kids all over the world huh?" , as if the expectation is that i must be impregnating women wherever i go... its really crunge and gross and its both men and women who make these kinds of comments.
Never in my life I thought women travel solo for sex. Many men do this but not women.
yeah! I wouldn't be able to enjoy the landscape, food and culture if I had to spend time swiping!
Yes when I went to Albania, this guy wanted me to sleep with him thinking I was there to have fun, I said no, I don’t sleep with anyone I don’t know 🤷🏻‍♀️
I’m a dude solo traveling and I don’t hook up either. I’ve had short relationships, but hooking up isn’t my thing
I have encountered many of these female "sex tourists" in European hostels. But only been selected twice. They usually prefer Spaniards and Scandinavians.
as long as your happy this stuff really isn’t important
I have friends who solo travel to visit museums, go clubbing, enjoy great food, and hook up, and that's fine. For me, solo travel looks a little different I spend most of my time skating, exploring museums, hitting up small concert venues, and connecting with the local community as much as possible. I’m not usually out looking to hook up; if it happens, it happens, but it’s not my main focus. Everyone has their own way of having fun, and each version is just as fine.
Im a traveling welder who is a woman and i get it. I travel and explore. I make friends along the way
I don't think it's that deep. When I was solo traveling in Europe, a lot of guys were interested in me. I was surprised cause I was a complete dirt bag living out of a backpack. Short hair, no makeup, off the gram, but these Euro dudes were coming for me!! Anyway, long story long, follow your heart but don't be afraid to have some fun. Life is long and you don't want to look back with regrets


Probably from desperate and sexually frustrated people who are unable to travel anywhere.
As a woman who has traveled solo for 10+ years this is the first time I’ve ever heard that.
as a man never, except the time i said i was going to thailand and cambodge, when i only had temple, giant buddah and rice field in mind.
Same here.
If I’m going to be in a location for a long time, I will download hinge and see what’s out there. I’m honest with my intentions of how I live an alternative lifestyle and am looking for long term relationships or friendship. I’ve “hooked up” once after going on multiple dates with one guy. 

As I get older, sex needs to be meaningful and I need to feel a connection with my partner so casual sex isn’t of any interest to me! But everyone’s different. If I was living this lifestyle when I was younger, I’d probably want to hook up more. 

I really enjoy my own company and rarely get lonely. It would be nice to have someone in my life romantically who also does van life like me!
All I have to say is: you do you. No one is entitled to judge you for your choices. People with personal convictions are the best type of people. Enjoy your travels!
Neither do I! Just booked a trip to Mexico solo beginning of December after a motorcycle accident in Thailand in March took me out all the way until August! Couldn’t be happier about solo travel.
Yes. I NEVER hook up, regardless of when I travel or not. Just remember it says more about the people who say that to you than it does about yourself.
I'm a female solo traveler and I don't do hook-ups either.  I'm way past the casual dating/sex phase of my life, and I'm not travelling with the intent of meeting guys.  I travel because I'm interested in seeing new places, experiencing new cultures, and trying new foods.  If I meet cool people and make friends, that's a great perk, but I'm not looking for romance or sex.
I've heard this as well, it surprises me because I've never thought about "hooking up" while traveling. I'm traveling to see the world, not to see the inside of someone's pants 😂🤦‍♀️
Straight dude. I’d rather meet someone and fall in love than hook up. So I don’t even understand why traveling in another country and looking to hook up is such a big deal. Maybe for some.
No this isn’t true all women who travel hookup even if they deny it. The modern woman can’t go two weeks without being validated through sex this is just a fact that women need to stop denying
I thought women didn’t want men to judge them for hooking up with guys? But now you’re mad you get judged for the perception of hooking up with guys while traveling? I thought it shouldn’t matter if you’re hooking up? Make it make sense
Chill, maaro ! Kra toh bhi kya (kuch toh log kahegay logo ka kaam hai kehna) 

And don't seek validation from others. You know the truth and just follow the vibe
Most solo travel girls tend to be sluts. Doesn't mean all are but it's safe to make that assumption. Don't like it? Don't travel solo.
Your lame
How u doin?
Itni khamoshi kyu hai?Maine lgta h kuch miss krdiya..
That sounds like our and our misogyny to me, girl. A guy assuming cos you're doing anything independently it's somehow to serve them. Eugh. Literally last week a guy said to me they were surprised 'someone who looks like me' would stay in a mixed dorm. I asked why and he said I dunno I'm surprised you'd feel comfortable sleeping in a mixed dorm around guys. I was like 'is that a threat?' what's interesting here is it's like he's almost admitting he doesn't trust himself haha keep travelling solo if it makes you happy, stay safe but fuck em. Who cares what they think if you're doing you, you don't need to justify your solo travels for anyone
i travel solo to be SOLO.
Other than meeting my eventual wife through some travel serendipity, I never expected or even really desired having sex while traveling.  Most days I would be up early and walking for 8-10 hours through cities.  When I was done that, I would mostly just go to sleep.
For some people solo travelling is just an incentive to go to foreign cities and hook up with strangers cause they can't get lucky where they are from.
I was solo in Japan for 6 weeks. I was too busy eating food and gaining weight instead 😂😂😂
I mean, who says that?

That’s all I’m asking, who just says “I thought all solo traveling girls hook up”?  Like what type of person with what type of experience?

It sounds like something someone would say with little experience.
As a solo female traveler, I like to put it that way: If I want to hook up, the chance is bigger when I travel, than at home. Most guys are treating me different, when we shared a intimate time together. It’s like they’re strolling through your garden and behaving as if it were their own garden. I just don’t feel like that. If you’re not interested in continuing, the guys are usually offended. It’s all just too complicated for me. It’s not a problem when you’re on vacation. You get on the plane the next day and nobody asks if you’ll see each other again. I find that much more pleasant.
I solo traveled to Iceland last year. I’m married. My husband was in Brazil celebrating his friends bachelor party. I thought it was a great opportunity to solo travel while he was gone. Plus I Dont have a lot of friends that can just up and travel with me. One or My friends husband said “sounds like she’s going to go cheat on her husband”. Mind you he doesn’t travel. So he could never understand the thrill of solo travel. I thought that was the most ignorant statement ever. Enjoy your life. Dont worry about what people say.
Yes society today make it seem like girls are promiscuous.   That’s good that you have your values and follow them.
I’m an older male and people always think that, even though I’m just traveling.
Wait women that travel solo hook up? How! Where do they have the time, the energy to do that? 

For me I'm adventuring 24/7. I might occasionally meet a friend here and there but I never met anyone I'd want to even hook up with.
Yes, solo female travelers often face these kinds of assumptions, which can be frustrating and unfair! Some people mistakenly equate solo travel with partying or hooking up, regardless of how you present yourself. It's a stereotype that unfortunately persists, but remember, it says more about their misconceptions than about you. Many solo travelers—men and women alike—explore the world for personal growth, adventure, and freedom, not for romance. It helps to brush it off and stay true to your values. You’re definitely not alone in experiencing this!
Idk, I recently learned what a passport bro was, and it surprised me how popular the term was. 

Yeah, some people will travel exclusively for sex. It's screams incel. Some people don't stress themselves over sex, and still travel. A lot of people travel, and just so happen to have sex. It's pretty common. 

If you choose not to do so, commit to it, and don't let others' decisions defer your choice. Enjoy your trip and get some good street food!
For this reason I'm afraid to do solo trips LOL that people will aproach me and what not.
Definitely relate to you OP. 

As a female solo traveler, men think I'm just down for anything but it doesn't make sense to me - I just like traveling and seeing new places and that's all it's about. 

I think they just always have to categorize us as fun/downforanything/hookup girl and homely/boring/marriagematerial girl
I have had the opposite experience. As a young man living in Myrtle Beach during the 80s and 90s it was a not so secret secret that hook ups were common with groups and solo women. I remember my first spring break experience was not with college coeds but with 30 something teachers. At least 50% of the women I hooked up with were married and the others had boyfriends. These MILFs left their kids with their husbands claiming they were just doing a girls trip for shopping and beach time. Their real plans were get tan, get drunk and get laid. Not saying all of them but a good amount of women.
I’ve had my fair-share and then-some of international travel and if hooking up happens then it happens. No need to go look for it. Just enjoy the experience and hopefully you become more modest as an individual.
What I have never heard of this. I am Asian, introvert, going solo most of the time. I always stay at female dorm and bought tours from getyourguide and sometimes I hang out with people there. I was even too shy to ask for people taking photos for me so my gallery are full of landscape. I've read so many comments here that girls were asked out by all the guys so I guess I am just too ugly 😅
It’s not you, it’s the manosphere addicts. Just roll your eyes and block.
Nah, sorry you had to hear that.
I also don’t hookup up !!! But I did go on dates 
Amazing dates , kissed made out !!!


Somehow one story is still stuck as it’s very fresh 
Happened in September 
I met a boy in Bali and we met twice 
On second meet I said I don’t want to be physical until I know you 

And then he said he wanna sleep lol 

I went back and then after 3 days he blocked me on Insta and WhatsApp 

Idk what happened 🥹
No one has every blocked  me
As a male traveling solo I did see some women like this but expectations are different depending on where you go. More party areas have a stronger hookup culture whereas small town and cultural areas have almost none. 

I personally did seek out ONS but mostly ended up short term dating locals (with sex)
Ugh I get this all the time when I travel alone…it kinda blows my mind
Yes. I thought it was because I’m a black woman but no, it is because I am female. They think we’re all fucking different men all the time if we’re single.
i would never assume a solo woman traveling was looking to hook-up... that seems incredibly dangerous.
To be honest I don’t really think about it any differently, if I meet someone then great, if I don’t then no worries!
My mom was an introverted flight attendant. She would prefer to visit historical sites and art instead of drinking with her fellow crew members during layovers. She's also a veteran like my grandpa, so she knew how to be cautious as a solo female traveler. In more dangerous countries or cities, she stuck close with her crewmates or stayed in the hotel room. She would get harassed since one of her close coworkers was a slut. However, once they realized they weren't getting anything from my mom, they left her alone. 

She's also a very blunt logical thinker who's unintentionally savage. One guy who kept hitting on her at a bar decided to be more direct after she wasn't getting any of his hints, and she said, "Oh, I thought you were gay because the way you move your hands when talking along with that shirt is kind of feminine." I could imagine the awkward silence, oof.
Yes, I can totally relate to this and also have "date to marry/be in a relationship values" Live your life to the fullest, because people will form judgements no matter what the woman's status. I've been traveling now for 40+ years. Mostly solo, other times with friends/family. YES! People (mostly men) have given me the side-eye when they've learned I've traveled solo. I've been to Toronto from the US over 30 times and a man in my convo group there recently asked me if I was staying with family, who I was traveling with, etc. I never revealed my hotel or other info to him. While having the great love affair is the theme of most travel movies, it isn't practical for a woman traveling alone, in my opinion. I am very cautious, and don't look to hook up with anyone either. It's just safer that way, for a woman. A few years ago I returned to my hotel to see dozens of men in the lobby. I never made eye contact with anyone and immediately went to my room alone. Sometimes I wear a wedding ring, other times I tell people that I'm meeting someone. You don't want to miss out on life-changing positive experiences from traveling. Back in the '80s my mom's friends gave her the business for letting me go to Mexico alone. She relaxed when she realized that my host family was picking me up at the airport. So many wonderful experiences happened with that family over two weeks. Both she and my dad eventually also went on trips with me during their lifetimes. Travel is wonderful! Don't pass up on it due to other's limitations!
dont worry what people think.  plenty of people travel without hooking up
Totally agree, but these assumptions that women travel to hook up seem more like a male fantasy than reality.

I have traveled and hooked up and traveled and not hooked up... The same way I do back home, which is mostly not hooking up. 

I think that the fact that men have those fantasies of doing abroad what they can't do back home, stems these assumptions about women too.
As a guy, I always forget to put my energies for a hookup to be successful while travelling.

Once I had 2 days to spend on an island and I was on a boat party and my "love interest" asked me to accompany her back to the hostel because she started puking. I continued with the boat party.

Maybe it would have been a hookup 
OR
Maybe she was just looking for someone to nurse her till she reaches the hostel.

With 1500 dollars worth of 14 days vacation, I ain't playing no love island.
Seriously, I mean jfc, why does everything need to be about sex?
Who grows from fucking strangers? I’ve never understood the appeal. To each their own though.
Well said! Thats essentially what solo traveling is. You make it what you want it to be.
This is so true for me. I focus on the travel and taking care of myself - Maybe the occasional fling does happen but I find it super hard to prioritise a fling over the hundreds of things keeping me hyped up. No one deserves judgement for that - but I do judge folks (of all genders) indulging in sex tourism. It is low key exploitative and ruins the trip.
Also it would be sex, not romance. 

You can’t exactly have a romance with someone you’re never going to see again (unless you are lying to yourself - been there, done that, hope I’m finally old enough to be over it).
I think for a lot of women, random holiday hookups are also about the anonymity of it.   They can do what they want and not worry about somebody they know seeing them.
How is that strange? She said she never hookups so she is on the pattern.
Same any time I felt like i really needed some cuddles and companionship I was seriously bored
Exactly
But where they do it when they stay in a hostel? 😭
Or the opposite! I traveled solo to almost 30 countries and stayed in hostels every time, and never hooked up with anyone before. To me it seems so nasty, literally having a random person be so intimate with you
Only in party hostels. There are other hostels geared toward other type of travelers. I usually stay in social hostels. I'm sure there's hooking up there as well but it's not obvious or in my face.
This. I am the latter.
Same I travel alone all the time and nobody has ever made this assumption to me. Dick is abundant and of low value at home, why travel for it?
I mean why are people not afraid of diseases 🤷
Frrr, solo travel too (male tho) and I've been in a decent amount of countries and hostels, but never hooked up or had intention to do it, same reason as you... far away, someone I just met? Nope
I swear lol, i have enough energy to enjoy myself but not enough to date and avoid the killer
Same thoughts lol I talk to locals using a language exchange app because they help me with directions and stuff but I never meet anyone in person. I watch enough true crime documentaries to know
Hmm, im going to disagree with you.  If you travel with the purpose of having sex, you are a sex tourist, regardless of if you hire a prostitute or not.  

If sex finds you, i wouldn't call you a sex tourist

Why?  It all really boils down to the game you are playing, imo
TBH this (the original idea about what girls and women who travel solo do) sounds like some bullshit an incel would say.
To be honest it happens to dudes too, after coming back from Thailand or South America I got bombarded with stupid questions about how many hookers did I sleep with - like dude I want to see and experience a place not get STDs.
Same! Never hooked up and travelled all over the world for over a decade. 


Like you said, we're all individual.  Why so much judgement either way...? 🤷🏾‍♀️
Also in Turkey, I felt harassed a lot until I started covering my hair (little tip) though no one said anything to me like what OP reports. I have been propositioned a handful of times in my years of solo travelling (Rome, Istanbul, Costa Rica) and had many a man try and flirt, but most people are respectful once politely told ‘no’ and no one has been surprised when told I don’t hook up
Ah shit my country never ceases to amaze
I mean, there are guys who are going to suggest hooking up under virtually any circumstance, may not have much to do with solo travel
[deleted]
No. It's because some guys will proposition anyone
They just projecting because they don’t have anything interests when traveling and trying to hook up.
It doesn't give off that vibe, OP just ran into a guy who (clumsily) tried to seduce her. As you have.
Yup! I personally don't pursue solo girls with the intention of hooking up because I don't want to make things awkward for both of us since we're staying in the same place. But I've befriended women who eventually open up and tell me their past, see them hook up, or in the rare case, they pick me and we hook up. Is it all women, no. But the chances are higher in a hostel than in my everyday life. But yeah, that's why you have to deal with guys assuming you're easy.
Same with me ! People just assume that I hookup coz I travel solo lol
well it was for me lol. I'm so glad I don't have any secret kids popping up somewhere 😅
Ohh yeah so much ! Got asked if my brothers were ok with me traveling on my own. I gave him the look of “you can see I’m not from here right?” and he backtracked quickly like “never mind”. But opened my eyes to see I was born in a country that let me be my own person, sad for the girls who can’t :(
All of the above unfortunately. Tour guide hitting on me on African safari was the worst. He was supposedly in charge of my safely.
OMG, the worst! And ALWAYS being reminded you are solo: “Oh, dinner for ONE?!?”; “Are you married?”; “Why are you traveling ALONE?”

So many invasive questions!!
As a guy who solo travels I get a lot of questions like this too.  It's super annoying, and people just can't seem to fathom the idea of traveling to another country by yourself.


"You don't have friends here?"


"Why are you alone here?"


"So you are working here?"


"Is your family here too?"


I've been asked these exact same questions over and over and over again.
Yikes. Sometimes I'm glad I'm a dude so I don't have to deal with shit like this. It must be horrible to endure.
There are benefits to being an older woman!
(as a man): While I don't doubt some incels do think that, I also think its just a way for a guy to blame it on the girl for not sleeping with him.
[deleted]
Men get plenty of flack as well. Traveling through Asia as a guy, people used to assume that I'm a sex tourist. I just completely avoid all bars/clubs now. Kind of sad, because I used to love meeting cool people in bars back in the U.S., but it's not worth the hassle with the hoards of fake Viagra salesmen and prostitutes that endlessly proposition you.
Agreed. 
Lizard brains
While I am a female solo traveler and don't hook up with strangers, I do engage with people when possible. I recommend that to you also. It has changed my life and hopefully will do the same for you. If you are friendly to the locals and curious about their cities/countries/customs, it has been my great joy to have received short tours and brief exchanges about all sorts of interesting things. In Spain recently, I asked a couple what tapas to order. When they left, another couple then approached me and asked which tapas to order! It was all great fun. That is only one example of the amazing week I spent there and engaging with people left me with many wonderful memories of that country. Some exchanges were with people from other countries too. On another trip, a fruit seller in Paris walked up to me one early morning, said good morning, here's a present for you, and then went on about his day. The present? It was an enormous quince! He had no alterior motive other than to spread his good mood. BTW, I'm a woman of a certain age. I think he approached me because I must have been giving off good vibes too.
Wait.. whaaat???
I say this as a dude: This thought process is the exact reason why women avoid men. Just the fact that two single people are having a casual conversation isn’t an invitation to try and hook up. I have a friend like this; any time he meets a woman and learns she’s single he takes it as reason enough to take his shot. 

Granted, conversational context matters, but unless the woman I was talking to initiated it, I’m not assuming that’s what she’s open to.
"Particularly for women" huh? I've met lots of other solo women traveling and pretty much 0 of them were interested in hooking up with people. Also not sure how it would be "particularly for women" since presumably most of them are hooking up with men.
This is only true for solotraveling women in only a handful of countries (Italy, Spain, France, Australia, UK). These countries i mentioned are like natural turn ons for american or anglo women because of their perceived romantic charm and that too only for the local guys with accents. But no chick is getting turned on at the thought of solo traveling through Mexico, Thailand, India, Hungary, Morocco or whatever. They may be open to romance but that is not necessarily hooking up randomly.

This perception also comes from the days before Tinder and dating apps. Hostels used to be much more sexual places because it was hard to find dates otherwise. Both genders used travel as a way to get out of their ruts. Women don't travel for this anymore. Dating apps mean they almost always have men they are interested in their hometowns
There definitely are men who believe that a woman who is down to travel alone must be doing it because she's an insatiable nymphomaniac. I have no other way to explain crusty 50 year olds thinking they have a chance with hot female tourists young enough to be their daughters.
Or does hook up mean sex now?
Men and women can both feel this way, I’ve had people come on very strongly in hostels even after a couple of rejections. But I’m a man so no one cares. Not trying to sound like a victim but it’s pretty factual…

I will admit that it’s more prevalent the other way round and in that case it would most likely be easier for the perpetrator to gain what they want forcefully, but you can’t say it’s all “male fantasy”
It's not gender specific. It's person specific. 

I remember we were just chilling in a beach side hostel in SE Asia at night. Two girls walk in from the nearby "hotel". One of them chats with a guy for like half an hour, takes him to the beach, they make out for like an hour in the sea while the whole hostel watched.

P.S : It was not organic at all, they walked in the hostel from the intention of hooking up.
As a well travelled male, I believe this is all a made up misconception that young horny testosterone male travellers say to each other so they think they’ll get lucky. And to create some kind of false expectation on women. And now women are starting to believe this is what’s meant to happen when solo traveling? No it doesn’t. Solo is purely to enjoy your moments. Yeah, you might hookup every now and then, but that’s not what solo travel is all about. 

Remember, testosterone is the one thing that makes males think like that. Women also have testosterone but it’s something like 25% as opposed to a male 85% or so. Now you know why men are crazy about women all the time.
These incels watch too much porn.
So it’s projection
I don't think "women travel to hook up" but I do think it's significantly easier for guys to get laid while backpacking, just from personal experience (I was in a monogamous relationship so didn't actually hook up, but I had offers). 

My assumption about women is they are, like men, usually in a situation where they are more free and having fun with less responsibility, and they are outside their usual social bubble so feel less judgement. 

From English culture specifically, there is a strange rule that you're "allowed" to sleep around abroad. Girls who would never have three one night stands in a week back home will do it while on holiday. Not sure if this applies in other countries.
Doesn’t need to be but if people want it to be then they are free to
It’s human nature. People enjoy it, nothing wrong with that.
Because it's fun and you're only as young as you are now, once. Nothing wrong with making sex and hooking up a part of solo travel. 

It's like pizza, universally loved, but there are some in the minority that want nothing to do with pizza on vacation or at home. That's okay, but like pizza, sex is popular for a reason.
Ask Freud
When I was a lad I grew at the very thought of it.
I enjoy it, but (once you've done it a couple of times), it's just fun and not a character-growing experience or anything like that.

No way should you be being downvoted for your post. People should just admit they like sex because sex instead of trying to claim it's about self-growth and so on.
Excuse me but I heard two young lovebirds outside my hostel window at 6am declaring their love for each other and that it’s meant to be and they’ll make it work. Before getting in their own respective taxis to the airport haha. 

Ahhh young love.
You can see them again...?

I had two relationships start as travel hookups. And some hookups that turned into wonderful friendships.
I disagree. You can have good chemistry and fun together but knowing it’s temporary.
I was responding to the comment she received of “I thought all solo traveling girls hook up”
Sadly.... Right in the bunks, in the showers, etc. It's like college dorm rooms all over again. Just turn your head/put on your headphones.
If youre not broke, you book a private for the night, if you are broke the shower if you are polite, but in budget hostels with young backpackers in 8+ person dorms, just their dorm bed.
I always get private room so when the opportunity arises  I am covered
I’ve done this before, I’ll get a hotel if I meet someone I like. Might be hard depending on the time of year, but I usually like to travel in off-seasons
Personally I’ve only really done this when the guy I met was willing to wait a day and switch to a private room the night after meeting and deciding we want to hook up. Obvs, sometimes that doesn’t work because they’re leaving the next morning or something, but it’s certainly my preference 
People are disgusting. My daughter was on a scientific  research vessel and shared a room with another person who had a guy in there and expected my daughter to be fine with it. Thankfully the bunks had curtains,  but eew.
Bathroom or some hidden place in public. How do I know? 🤷‍♂️
More often that not, in my experience, girls in hostels are fucking the locals, bartenders, hostel workers, tour operators, who all have a room outside the hostel.
The upper bunk. One time I heard it all
Yeah nasty 😈
hahaha i'm dead
Condoms are pretty good about that
exactly, and with the amount of harassment I've faced as a solo female traveller, I'm not in the mood anyway
Why did this literally make me laugh out loud?!?  😂😂😂

Same girl! Same!!! I didn't pay all this money to die! 😭
yeah I'm not ending up on one of those documentaries...I always have the little voice in the back of my head going "she was last seen on CCTV at Barcelona Airport before COMPLETELY DISAPPEARING...this has been Netflix Unsolved"
No offense, but your opinion does not factor into the way words and phrases are defined. Google “sex tourism” and it will define the phrase.
The idea has been around way before incel culture was even a thing. It’s an idea glamorized by books and movies, such as “eat, pray, love.”
Thailand got worse because of the passport bros all over Instagram in recent years. 

There's just no way a guy solo traveling there is going to avoid getting seen as someone banging hookers in Thailand. Same for south America.
I wore black çarşaf just for fun (I know that it means you are a part of a certain coservative community) when solo traveled to İstanbul and some random dudes tried to hook up with me several times in different years. I was really cringed and since then started to wear a regular headscarf, and it's stopped. I still wonder what was THAT - trying to hook up to a woman in çarşaf, isn't it just INSANE?
I think this pretty much explains the experience OP is having as well. There's plenty of guys out there who will say and do whatever in an attempt to fuck anything that moves.
i guess so but i noticed that out of almost all my friends, im the only one who have faced situations like this considering i dress pretty modestly, in the asian context and studying smth nerdy :/ okay maybe i shouldnt reveal that i solo travel until they know my character perhaps
Who is they?
It was for me too.
But as I got older it stopped being this way.
Yeah, it's funny how people in this thread are acting like travel hookups are a myth. "Young, single people hooking up at a social gathering? By Jove, that's preposterous! Jeeves, fetch me a monocle so I can adjust it worringly beneath my brow."

I've even seen people use the phrase 'sex tourism' for solo travelers hooking up. Or others saying it's a myth spread by incels. Come on.

Now, of course solo travel doesn't mean you get jumped by a hot French girl vagine-first he moment you leave your room. But you gotta be either blind, naïve or a very tight sleeper to believe there's no hooking up at hostels.

And it's usually the Brits who do the vagine-jump-thing.
That is so sad for real. I do complain but you are completely right, we are still lucky to be able to do that.
Right? How do they keep their jobs...
Sorry your Guide did that. I spent a year in Africa and the approaches were constant and from everywhere! You kind of get used to it as they’re mostly affable (in my experience - but I’m not saying they were all affable!). 

I had one guy run up to me during a half marathon to try his luck. I kept chatting with him til the end of the race just for some running company then told him I had a boyfriend haha 
Yes lol. Like seriously I never get hit on so much as when I travel solo, and I do not enjoy it one bit. I'd rather feel safe walking around without being creeped on thanks
I've asked women (and men) why they're traveling alone because that's how you learn what motivates a person to do what they do. It's a conversation starter. It's not sexist, I'm just genuinely impressed with them because I'm too afraid to travel alone.
Do these questions have sexual undertones? Because curiosity about someone traveling alone is a bit different from a man trying to opportunistically gauge weather he has a chance with you.
Yes I envy guys a lot! Especially the freedom to go to the parts of the world that are simply too unsafe for us ladies.
🙁
hey don't insult lizards!
I'm calling 🧢
Asking someone is not assuming anything; it’s literally asking. If you’re not down you say no like an adult and move on.
Nah, lots of crusty 50 year old dudes act like that regardless of the environment. Has nothing to do with us women solo travelling.
...yes. :3 american slang tbf
It feels like you are missing the very real difference that exists for women in their perceived safety when they are alone vs. having a friend around.
I’d say this rule could be extended to many other countries. My region (Australia and New Zealand) for certain IMHO
Sure but telling a girl (I'm not sure of the context but I imagine it being said by a stranger) "you must hook up when you travel" is gross because why is that your first thought about a girl solo travelling
Idk. I get what the naysayers are saying and I respect it. I love sex, I think about it all the time related to my own personal time, and I definitely think people should enjoy it when they want, but hearing about it all the time/making everything about sex is incredibly exhausting and annoying. It’s hard to enjoy anything without it for a lot of people.

Hate the “you’re only young once” thing too. So irritating, tired, and worn out. Young people often don’t even have the best sex, nor is having fun of any kind exclusively for young people. Nobody needs to have a bunch of their sex when they’re young just because they’re young, if they don’t want that pressure. Can have just as much sex when you’re older too. In fact, a lot of people I know who are older have had great solo trip sex and have better sex now anyway. I have had more fun of the “you’re only young once” brand as an older person than I ever did as a young idiot.

Also, people are sexual creatures, they know that can have sex without people telling them to. I’ve never had more sex because people told me I should- lmao. I’ve genuinely never thought to tell someone they should have sex on a vacation as if I were recommending a particular food. Wild that people do that. I can see someone recommending a red light district or a sex show because it’s a novel activity, but not just urging people to have sex.

Maybe in general people in an oversexed world are just sick of hearing about it. Or maybe they have trauma related to it and it’s a sensitive topic. Some people don’t want to talk about sex any more than they do politics or religion. That’s why there’s a movement toward younger gen and traditionalism. Just let people find their way. This post was brought up for a reason- a lot of people genuinely don’t give a shit about random sex. Some do. Either way, unsolicited sex advice isn’t appropriate.
Sex followed by pizza,  doesn't get much better than that.
And you shouldn't use a pineapple.
That’s adorable. I guess I’m just too cynical.
That’s great to hear.
Yeah I don’t know why this other person is saying romance has to be this long term thing. Romance is just the art of courtship and chemistry, experiencing somebody else through love or pleasure. It can be long or short term. 

Like literally Before Sunrise is one of the greatest ROMANCE movies and it takes place during one night only. Yes they get together in later films but the movie’s plot could stand on its own and definitely still be considered a romance.
Hot take for this subreddit, but people actually don’t fuck that much in hostels. I think it happens more frequently in party hostels in Asia and Europe, but outside of that it isn’t that common.

I’ve spent at least 200 nights in dorms and have never encountered people fucking
Nah fuck that. If your gonna book a room where you know theres gonna be 7 other ppl, you have to be reasonable. Its pretty damn disrespectful to fuck in my bedroom, so im gonna be pretty damn disrespectful back.


Just get a private room, hotel, whatever, or worst case, i'll put up with the shower (provided you clean up).


Dont fuck in my bedroom.
thats when you yell out 'I hope you brought enough to share'
How old is too old for hostels in Europe?
I am so glad i hate hostels and only stay in hotels on matter where i go.

Like how the fuck do people like sleeping in a room with multiple strangers?

Do you americans trust people this much?  or maybe im just too  eastern european for this.
You must slay a decent amount lol, paying 2-3 times more at every hostel for the chance and all
The issue with that is access to the hostel for your "guest" is a lot more controlled than a large chain hotel where you can easily sneak someone in with no questions asked.
Lmaoo I bet it could be fun for the right person but I am definitely a germaphobe when it comes to that, even kissing. I am lame
Haha happy i could make someone laugh 😄

Right, this money is to also get home safe
Or Stella getting her groove back. I booked a private transfer with a known company for a transfer in Negril. Uniformed driver and all. He pulled off the road to show me a "special spot" , deserted close to the water , I was saying , that's ok, I'll just go to the hotel. He parked the van and put his seat all the way back so he was laying down. I said, I don't know what you think is going to happen but it's not so start the van and let's go. Thankfully he did.

Jetski guy was the same kinda guy.

Same trip while I was beach walking solo a dude came out of the mangroves and before I knew it he had grabbed me and was dragging me away. I couldn't get loose ( I'm pretty strong) , thankfully my screaming and flailing brough 2 men running to my rescue, big dude let me go and ran.

I posted yesterday about my cab driver in Nicaragua trying to be my "novio" feeling up my leg and kissing my hand. Im 59 ffs

I travel solo often, get hit on often, that I can deal with. Many trips  it's  sexual assault where I have to take protective action for it not to turn into rape.
Incel culture predates Eat Pray Love.

In my personal experience, men are way more pushy now than they were 10-15 years ago. I think it's all the podcast bro shit with body counts, high/low value, "for the streets," and other garbage. Misogyny is worse now than it was two decades ago, and two decades ago, it was fucking terrible.
She didn’t have that much sex in eat pray love. Two thirds of the concept is not love/sex related. Please leave Elizabeth Gilbert out of this 😂
only applies to old  people, everyone i know solo travelled to thailand and they aint hooking up lol
There's just a general slut-shame-y air in OP's post. Apparently the rest of us don't have values.
Because people don't complain enough about people. I got a guy fired before because he made people feel extremely uncomfortable. The bosses always love hearing who is ruining their revenue stream.
Depends on the interaction. A lot of people in Asia assume every white guy who rolls through is a sex tourist. Gets old fast.
...what is that? A sad raincloud???
Not very different from the "you must have a girlfriend in every port" shit that men get when they travel even for WORK. My husband got that shit from an old school friend ages ago before we were together and he was disgusted. All because he travelled to and fro between 2 cities!
Absolutely no one is saying that though.
Well said
Yeah...from the looks of it, it might hurt a bit using one for sex... 🤭😅🤣
i have also spent at least 200 nights in the hostels, probably more, and never ever heard anybody fucking. Maybe I am oblivious but maybe it doesnt really happen al that often
In a funny turn of events, during my first night at my first hostel ever I tried to walk to the showers and encountered two people mid act. I definitely get the reputation.
Agreed. A lot of solo travelers often meet and hookup with people who are local and or have a hotel. Not a fellow hostel goer .
I've spent a lot less nights than that in hostels, and in my experience it's quite common. It depends on the hostel, really. If the place is classified as a 'party hostel', the atmosphere is looser than if you're at a hostel with strict curfews about noise, etc. It also happens less at hostels where social interaction isn't encouraged with activities and stuff like that. Some hostels have a lively common area, others just have people sitting on their phones.

Maybe it's different in the States, but it would surprise me. I think it's common sense that at any social gathering with solo travelers, there's bound to be people hooking up. The classy ones take a private room, but when people are shitfaced, they tend to believe sheet covers or a dingy shower stall door offer plenty of privacy
Yep. In about 8 years of SOLID travelling, probably half of that in dorms, I’ve only encountered it once. And the perpetrator was me. (sorry!)
A couple of days ago, I decided to book a hostel just for a night after staying in hotels for a while. On that night, a hostel roommate of mine brought a guy into our dorms at 4am, went straight into the ensuite bathroom, heard her moan for about 10 minutes, and then they left the dorms without her ever coming back to sleep. It was a party hostel full of uni kids, so I'm not surprised. The bathroom was pretty grim, but I guess that is the best choice these poor travellers had. At least, I was glad they didn't do it in the dorms itself.
I encountered it many times, once was in a shower where I could clearly hear the moaning sounds. Another time my friend decided to do it right above my bunkbed, I was not amused about that...
I've encountered it 3 times, Cappadocia in the dorm room, Dubrovnik on the floor of the shower room 🤢 and in the bunk above me in San Cristobal de las Casas. The only times I've hooked up in hostels though is when I have a private room, and it's never been with another guest.
I've actively avoided party hostels- throwing my own experience out I would say yes, people fuck in regular hostels. Not that it happens every single night, but the communal aspect makes it more likely, always chatting and meeting new people. I would say it's pretty common, also being in the 300 nights in a dorm group. Maybe they've been quiet about it around you lolz.
I spent a night in a 8 bed dorm, and every single other bed was fucking all throughout the night. I'm probably about the same (200 nights in hostels) and people were fucking on 10-20 of those nights.
You mean OUR bedroom! ☝️🤓
Didn't say it was right, just said it happens.
Well wait a moment… just give them some space, and let’s just see where it goes eh…? **hog cranking intensifies**
Yeah don't book a hostel if that's what you want, that's why I only ever stay in hotels these days
> Do you americans trust people this much? or maybe im just too eastern european for this.

Hostels are **significantly** less common in America than they are in Europe.
Not everyone can afford hotels. Hostels are cheap, so if the only way I can afford traveling is by sharing a room with 10 strangers, I'll make the effort. In exchange for the bad sleep, I'll get to do a trip that I couldn't have afforded otherwise
What a fucking weird assumption to make lol. Most Europeans including myself stay in hostels all the time,m. You also grossly overestimate how disgusting and vile the hostel experience is. Most of the time everyone is quiet and peaceful.
Uhhh

Hostels are very much a *european* thing, not an *american* thing.

I've only stayed in one hostel that wasn't in the former Warsaw Pact, lol. 
 
Its very easy to stay in a room with other people, hostels are fine 99.999999% of the time. But you can always get a hotel (or private room at a hostel) if you want.

Meeting people is like half the reason to travel, and hostels are good for that. I still have friends I keep in contact with from trips years ago.
I am eastern european and hostels are great. They made me much less introverted, for all kinds of reasons. I insist less on comfort and privacy for starters in my everyday life, I started to give less of a shit. Also, they are cheap and you get to meet plenty interesting people so they are always a great option for young solo travelers
What. Hostels are more of a European thing than an American thing…
I’ve been traveling across SEA and have only met a couple of Americans that stayed in the hostels I’m staying in and most are europeans. 

Staying in hostels is cost effective, I’m outside most of the day and night exploring - it’s not appealing for me to shell out a lot of money to stay in a hotel. Plus how do you build character if you’re not willing to go out of your comfort zone? 🤪
I’d say I do pretty good on my social game. I’m friendly and pretty decent looking. I hit the gym everyday wherever I go(usually each city or town have some kind of gym facility) then I just hangout at the lounge area of the hostel and start making friends lol. Money wise, my job back home pays pretty well. It enables me to get private room most of the time
Yes, the access is more controlled and they have people checking the door 24/7. They give us the guests who’s staying a wristband. If the person you’re interested in staying at the same hostel, it’s not a problem.
Haha. Lame sisters unite!  
I mean honestly, without drugs or alcohol, how could you *not* have thoughts about some rando's hygene? 😆
I’ve encountered it already in my one month of travel twice. Once in showers in Lisbon - where the couple was fully aware I was in the next door as them and then once in Porto where a girl I was sharing the room with (no curtains in between!) just decided to be naked with a guy next to my bed with all their lingerie and undies on the floor!
That’s terrifying.  I would be too scared to travel again
Hahaha
I'm not saying they are. I'm saying if you were to tell people you were traveling to those places alone they will assume you are hooking up
That's putting it mildly. She's got 'date to marry'-values and she's not on Instagram like the rest of us sluts.

Whatever guy came onto her, he dodged a bullet
Ohhhh, but people do say things like this…as a 30-+ female, I can confirm.
About a thousand nights here. Saw one couple going at it in Bolivia. But that's it.
Ditto, something like...  65 days around Europe, 50 around SE Asia, another 2 week in Spain, another week in Italy, a week in Colombia, a week in Chicago, a week in NYC, week in Hawaii... I've never once heard anyone having sex.
It may be going on somewhere in the hostel, but in the dorm rooms? No. I’ve never heard that.
Yes, comrade. Don't fuck in Our bedroom.
This. I've probably stayed in 50 hostels by now and could count the bad experiences with one hand. And I'd really have to think about it, as I can only think of one place right off the bat.
It’s definitely not most Europeans lol. Hostels are very popular in Europe, yes. But only in a certain age/income group. 
All of my friends slept in hostels in their early twenties. But now, in our late 20s and early 30s no one is anymore. And that’s pretty much the case for everyone (ofc with certain exceptions).
There’s a reason that there are way more hotels than hostels practically everywhere.
are you working remotely?
You can go to the gym without taking out a subscription?
It is terrifying and I have often been shook to my core. I take comfort and strength in the  instincts that the universe has gifted me to save myself (sometimes with help from others ). I will not let fear rule my life or ruin my passion for learning about the world and they great people in it because of those other people.

My friends and I joke that either I am the luckiest or unluckiest woman in the world.
Eh there are some horror stories but then there's also some genuine sacrifices in comfort. It's very hard to sleep outside of normal sleep hours. When you do sleep in normal sleep hours, you have to be ready for people to come in and out at any time of the night and hear their alarms early in the morning. And you have to be able to put up with snoring

Showers are generally outside of the room so you have to carry around all your clothes, towel, and toiletries across the hostel to shower, and you might just have to wait for one to open up once you get there.

Sometimes you get a really nice hostel where you get curtains, no snorers, low occupancy (so you can sleep whenever), and an in room shower/bathroom, but generally the above applies.
How would you know if that’s the case for everyone if you don’t go to hostels? Haha, it’s not the case at all, good hostels often sell out in desirable locations and you often see middle aged and occasionally even elderly people or whole families.
Nope. I’m a union electrician in the states. Work is plenty and the pay is good. So I work for two months or 3 then take a month or two solo travel somewhere
Most gym in different countries let you do day pass. It’s not expensive at all. I was in Nicaragua for a month I did day pass the entire time. It was a dollar or two for a day pass. Another incentive to go is most solo travelers also do the same thing so you’ll see them at hostel after and makes it even easier to break the ice. Say something like “hey I saw you at XYZ gym earlier, didn’t realize you’re staying here also” then you’re in my bro
I'm still trying to process your first comment but I think I've learned something new here today. As a woman, I've often let the fear of men stop me from enjoying myself (and I'm sure I'm not the only one lol) so it's nice seeing a different perspective!!
A kind of fuck you to the universe I think

Thank you :)
As a fellow blue collar. You're my hero mate.
My perspective is the universe has always had my back, it gives me what I needed to be/get safe from what this world is throwing at me. It took a long time to get to this point, used to think it was out to get me when things got shitty. Being grateful brings peace, joy and courage.

Me and the universe are saying fuck you to the bad elements that try to intrude.

Universe has a great sense of humour, with the Nica taxi driver it popped into my mind to tell him Jesus es mi novio (Jesus is my boyfriend). The look on his face as he processed he was feeling up a nun. Sahzamm motherfucker
Thanks brotha. Life does not happen when we retire. Life is happening right now. I don’t make the most money but I make it happen✊🏽
This hostel is hell, what do I do
So I've been solo in mexico for 2 weeks now, and all my roommates have been fine untill now. 2 days ago I had the hostel to myself when a group of 8 highschool guys showed up. It was a 9 bed room so I was the only person not part of them.

Every night they would keep the main light on and talk all night. And not whispering either. Pretty much screaming most of the time. They'd bring their girlfriends to the room, and then get even louder. 

I ask them if they can please go to bed or if I can turn the light on and they ignore me. I don't know what to do. Do these people seriously not sleep, like it's 2 am rn and these fuckin bitch ass motherfuckers are as loud as fucking ever. 

Is there anything I can fuckin do???? I'm literally dying from tired here.
I would have asked to be moved to a different room or for my money back during the first night. 
You can ask to move to a different room or you could leave. I've done it a few times
Does the hostel not have workers you can address this with?
I've stayed in hostels where even a few of us having a conversation at a reasonable volume at like 10pm resulted in staff coming to tell us to be quiet. Surely the staff there must be able to do something. It's generally accepted that past like 10pm, dorms are for sleeping, common areas for everything else 🤷🏻‍♂️
Buy a really annoying local folk musical instrument and start learning to play it at 8am.
Um... check out? Time to move to another place?
That's the downside of shared bedrooms: cheap but with the downside that you can end up with shitty people.

Get a private room or upgrade to a hotel/apartment.  I always plan in enough money for this kind of scenarios.
Go to the staff. 
This is unacceptable behaviour. 

I know we Mexicans are considered loud and what not. But I’ve never been in a Mexican hostel that is okay with this bullshit. 

If they are even bringing random people into the room, any decent hostel will be cutting that shit out immediately. That’s a huge liability.

If they don’t help you to move you to another room and you decide to look for another place; I can recommend “Barrio Downtown” if you want to be in the city centre. “Casa Pancha” is a good one in the Condesa (only con is no elevator). 

And if you want your own room and be in a less busy area, I really like “Casa Lomah” the rooms are  tiny, but with all you need, great common areas and are affordable. I love the one in the neighborhood “San Miguel Chapultepec”, the building is absolutely beautiful, I could spend days in their huge backyard. But it’s still within walking distance of more busy areas (really close to el bosque de Chapultepec)
Move
I get this is in all likelihood a rant (or the fatigue is getting to you!) and yeah, it is annoying but it's something you've got to be prepared for when staying in hostels.

Either ask the staff for a room change or check out and go elsewhere.

edit: liklihood
Where is this? Found the most unbearable assholes in Cancun, then in the Western part of Mexico only very respectful and friendly people.
You can mention it to the receptionist. If it's a hostel that shows respect to its guests they will suggest changing you to another room even without asking for it yourself
8 high school boys enter a room. I would have been packing immediately lol.
Just leave get a place with a private room?
Pay the favour back in the morning by snoozing your phone 100 times, turning on the lights and shower really long 🤪
Just leave. Staying in cheap hostels and making """*friends*""" is not mandatory when you travel alone. Resting is extremely important and hotels and private rooms are almost always the way to go.
Ask staff for a new room, cut your losses and change hostels, invest in an eye shade and earplugs. Plenty of options here
It's hard to think when you're not getting good sleep.

Ask to move to a different room. If there isn't one available now, when one does become available they'll know you want it.

Or move to a different hostel.
Shoulda spoke to someone after that first night. 
Clearly 8 people who already know each other In a room with one stranger isn't ideal.
As solo traveler, base on a budget. I either stay at bed & breakfast, hostels with private room and bathroom. It’s a little bit more expensive but worth it at the end. Especially if you are the type of traveler that have to follow a schedule next day. Good luck! Hope you can find something soon :)
Participate!!! Tell the girls how hot they are and they should be models. Ask them for one of their beers with the promise you’ll buy for tomorrow. (Hint you’ll forget to buy). Tell long pointless stories how your 8th grade friend betrayed you. Turn on your music and dance.  

Let them know that waking you up is a one way ticket to cringeville.
Jesus wept, why are you asking reddit instead of putting on your pants and just going to talk to the staff of the hostel?
Why it’s worth it to step up and get a private room from time to time
They’re probably coked to the gills bud, idk if it’s an option for you but it’s 8+ against 1, just find another hostel.
Are high-school age kids common in hostils
I hate to say it but that’s the cost of cheap accommodation, you run the risk. 2am isn’t even that late either tbh I feel like you need to relax and think about getting a private room next time
If you can't beat them join them
Leave. Go find another place to stay!
Okay, this is my go-to extreme measure for shit like this if you cannot leave or convince them to chill. Mosquito ringer. Find a frequency you can't hear, then just blast it full volume via Bluetooth speaker under your shirt. Make 1000% sure there are no ads. After searching to no avail, they may leave to talk elsewhere for a while. Good luck, man.
You tell the front desk what going on and ask to be put in another room.
I don't understand how someone is competent enough to travel internationally and book a room and doesn't understand that they need to talk to the staff if they're having issues. Now if the staff won't help then they need to find a new place to stay.

* An Aside:

How is this post even allowed? Every single post I make is auto-moderated and then deleted and when I ask for clarification because it didn't violate any of the rules I'm muted! I'm a solo traveler but I can't actually post here (have to use travelhacks) when I have legitimate questions about a destination or posts that might inspire discussion.

They really need to take off the auto-moderation and let people post, and if it truly violates the rules, delete it then.
Stop acting like you’re also a high schooler and speak to the staff
womp womp
Saying they’re “bitch ass” while posting on reddit about them from your bunk 😂
Mexico has very affordable hotels for all price ranges. Move to one of them.
leave wtf
If the hotel staff can't do anything or don't have another room for you, move out. Lol...
Earplugs
So it's not the hostel, it's your roommates.

Talk with the hostel staff and ask if you can switch rooms.
Are you male or female? Old  r young? You got money or not?

I’d say just move rooms or move hostels you don’t have to go through all that
Everyone suggesting talking to the staff, I've already done that and they aren't willing to do anything. Turns out this group booked the entire hostel except my bed. Also those saying move to a different hostel, I can as I am I'm below 18 so this is the only hostel I've found that will let me check in by myself.
Things like these are why I rarely stay more than 2 nights at a hostel/hotel I've never been in. Knowing it's gonna end soon is amazing. I did just that - 4 nights in 3 different hostels. The one with the most positive reciews was the worst one so one can't even trust Booking.com and Google reviews.


You never know if the rooms will be bad or the roommates will be nasty or the owners wouldn't care.


The annoyace to have to pack and move every few days is worth it for me but I travel light.
i’d wait until they’re all sleeping deeply to turn the light on and call someone loudly or watch youtube videos loudly. 


there was this girl in my hostel who thought it was a great idea to handwash her clothes in the middle of the room (there was a small sink there) at 6/7am in the morning. of course that sweetheart went to bed really early in the night. so at around 8pm she was already in bed while i was chatting with the other girls in the room, as you do. she dared to complain about it lol i just told her to suck it up as we all had to suck up to her washing her damn clothes at 6/7am and i felt justice has been made. no empathy for the others, no empathy for you
Buy a small fish, hide it somewhere in the room where nobody will find it. Will soon start to smell real nice for the boys. Leave for another hostel.
Is it just the 8 of them together or are they part of a bigger group? Cois you talked with them about swapping rooms with someone else they perhaps are friends with that ended up in a different room which is possibly quieeter.?
Which hostel is this? I’m heading to Mexico on my backpacking trip and would rather swerve it if possible haha
Ask to be moved
Ear plugs and a sleep mask? If you can't go somewhere else, maybe then at least you can block out the noise and light. 

ORRRR steal all the lightbulbs in the room, if they replace them do it again lol They're not gonna want to sit in the dark and the hostel will get sick of replacing them. 


ORRRR play the middle obnoxious loud  shitty music you can find and smoke them out. 

Drastic times, drastic measures
You're traveling bro - sounds like it's time to *travel* onward. Find a new hostel, or a guesthouse, or if you're staying long term an expat house. Hostels are loud sorry and annoying, anyway - spending multiple weeks in one is an L
Just move hostels, easy. There’s tons out there
Wake up early and be loud AF.  Give it back to them.
They don’t want you there hence they’re doing it intentionally, hoping you’d ask to change room
Buy a Fog horn and wait til they fall asleep and blow that bitch to wake them up.. I'm sure they will get the hint
That's the (cheap) price of staying at a hostel. It comes with risks. You pay for what you get.
Call the cops anonymously...
Say there are minors sharing room with adults that are not their parents...
The solution MIGHT be as simple as telling them that you really need to get some sleep as opposed to being passive aggressive or asking them to stfu. They’re loud, but they’re young and just having fun. How would they know that it’s making things difficult for you if you don’t tell THEM? It’s not even about being confrontational it’s about going to the source of the problem. Seems like nothing else has worked and you don’t have other options. What are the odds of telling them you need to sleep actually works?
Be loud and annoying when their asleep.
I keep the app “hotel tonight” on my phone for just this purpose. Hotels that didn’t get sold are offered for one night at a discount. Tomorrow treat yourself to a luxury hotel and get the best nights sleep of your life. At a discount of course.
I get staying in hostels to save money in high-priced American and European cities, but in a cheap country like Mexico, why not get your own room in a budget hotel?
Isn't there a time for lights out? Any hostel I've stayed at had this time posted.
Leave the hostel lmao.
ear plugs, noise cancelling ear buds/headphones are all options and, honestly, you should have considered that renting a bed with a bunch of strangers who have their own itineraries/ trips.
I rented a room above a club in thailand on a street that had bars throughout - my earbuds made everything go away.
Get out and go to a different hostel. Even better, get a private room in the new hostel if you can afford it. Staying at the wrong hostel can ruin one's trip. Know from experience.
If you have access to a really loud speaker play some music that they’ll absolutely hate really loud. They might get the hint.
Just go to a different hostel.
Ahhh … joys of youth hostels … what did you expect, seriously !
I don't know about Mexico, but at least in some countries (like Germany), disturbance of night sleep is illegal and you should call the police if someone is throwing a party and you can't sleep because of the noise
Ask to move to a different room!! Or if it’s in your budget, do a private room for a night or even a few more to catch up on peaceful sleep. Worst case, change hostel.
Nothing to add but "these bitch ass motherfuckers" had me creasing 😂
do you have an eye mask and ear plugs??
Bitch ass motherfuckers is a little extreme 

You don’t need to stoop to their level

These are teenagers on vacation. Why would they sleep before 2am. They’re having fun

Frankly you’re outvoted 9 to 1 here. That’s what happens when you buy a hostel bed. It doesn’t matter what one person wants if most people want something else. 

It’d be wack for them to only do what you want in the room. 

The real solution and adult mature decision here would be to ask the front desk to be moved
Leave.
Eat food that gives you stinky farts and let loose! My mom once threatened a rude hospital roommate with fish soup and kimchee if they didn't stop screaming at everyone.
yeah that's a hostel for you.
Move to a different hostel??
Eye mask, earplugs or brown noise app to mask their noise and melatonin is probably your best bet.
Wow, terrible dynamic - i can't imagine being the only different one out of 9 people. they should've chipped in to buy your extra bed and move you elsewhere.

honestly, you should just bite the cost and leave.
Ear plugs and eye covers
at this point there is not much you can do (based on your answers about the staff etc.), you need to change hostel
I’ve lost money because I had to leave hostels before, it sucks but it’s the reason I make my budget a bit cushion-y. In my case, the club was inside the hostel, directly next to my room, which I was not aware of beforehand. I was ill & the music was so loud my bed was vibrating until 2am. Also, there was AC promised, but when I got there it was only on from midnight-4am…. Truly a horrendous stay.
what hostel? the hostels i’ve stayed at in mexico were amazing
Now you know you don’t like hostels
sorry about your experience but i guess you just have to check out early and find a cheap/affordable stay elsewhere. 

anyway, if you anyone here is interested to connect with some expat community, r/ExpatFinanceTips  can be a good option
U should immediately move out bro… if u hv the budget
Just get out of there! Safety first! It’s just not worth it, if they can bring gfs into the place, probably no adults and management is useless, cannot change rooms etc, u r out of luck and outnumbered. It’s horrible to think of how many crimes or fights start with vvv small sparks. If u booked online u can leave a bad review or report to card Center for dispute if u leave. If all cash then cut your losses and move on to brighter things after u recover ur sleep and think more clearly, good luck
straight turn the light off, be tough, talk to the reception next morning
Leave and report their drug use to the police.
I would eat beans and just fucking fart and fill the room. It’s time for chemical warfare.
Just keep your stuff together and try to spend time out and about, sorry it's a bad experience
[deleted]
Always wonder for yourself if it costs more to move than to stay…
I've only experienced this in Brazil, multiple times. One guy turned on the room light to look for his stuff around 2am multiple times, couldn't believe it.
It’s a hostel, I’m assuming you paid pennies to stay there for a few nights?
Have you considered being friendly with them and just joining in on the chaos? I couldn’t sleep once because of the hotel room next to me was having a party and went to complain to them but ended up joining the party instead and actually had a great time lol
You can book a private room.
Change rooms.  Young people doing young people things.
It’s a hostel, this is literally the risk you take to save money on lodging.
lol, that sucks… I see you are upset. I recommend getting a hotel room for yourself don’t be cheap.
You are one. They are eight. Punch the numbers the management isn't going to do much for you. Obviously if you're staying in a town with a hostel there's more likely more than one there or a cheap hotel. I didn't catch how many more days you have in your trip but it might be worth moving somewhere else
Switch their water bottles out with tap water and just wait and watch … then obviously leave to another hostel
you have to be forceful at this point. i wish i was there to rip them a new one for u. 

with guests: be stern, be firm. tell them to shut the fuck up or go talk outside. 

with staff: tell them they need to take care of this. they can move you, or tell the other guests to stfu. if they dont, tell them you need your money back. if they dont do this, tell them this is unacceptable and you will be leaving a bad review on hostelworld + google reviews. 

last resort: leave and tell your cc company that their charge is fraudulent and you need your money back
That's just a series of red flags, and it sucks it happened to you. Definitely leave reviews with details - if the big boss isn't on site, they usually keep an eye on those. Unfortunately, the kind of place that won't offer a remedy of any kind probably won't agree to a refund. If you booked through a 3rd party OTA you can file a complaint with them, but it won't help with your immediate situation. Overall, there's really not much to do except look for a better place and enjoy the rest of your trip the best you can. Safe travels, and good luck.
Pay the local cops to arrest them
Yeah get yo money up and get a solo hostel or rent a room.
Just leave
I had something similar happen in Europe, I think it was Austria. We got into a hostel that had young teenagers in it.  They were going between rooms at mindinght and slamming doors and screaming.

We had 2 French guys in our room who had been putting up with it for the last 2 nights.  

I had enough that night and went into the hall and screamed at them in their language.  They froze and looked at me in fear. They stopped screaming and moved back to their rooms.

I told the front desk the next morning and didn't really get much help. 

We had signs in every hostel mentioning quiet times.

Make sure to leave online reviews.  We used them a lot to pick hostels. They helped out a great deal!
Talk to management or leave and book somewhere else.
Do the same to them at 6 am
change your sleep cycle

jk, no offense OP. Have been in your place
That's how cheap hostels work. It sucks, but you'll live
That's the chance you take when you stay in a hostel, you don't get to pick the people you share a room with
Dude don't stay at a hostel.  You can't expect high school boys to not be high school boys.
young people. When we travel with my nephews I stick them in a different hotel room.
If you cant control the guests staying in your hostel then you deserve everything you get.
This is why you don’t share rooms with complete strangers. Absolute insanity
You picked an hostel. What do you expected? Cheap does not come free
Ummm that’s why you don’t stay in a bloody hostel. Get a hotel
I’d confront them very aggressively if the hostel doesn’t do anything about it. The kids are disrespecting you because you’re allowing it. Shutting that shit down the hard way would make them think twice. Bonus: if they try to fight you, likely they will be the ones kicked out.
You’ve aged out of hostels, time for hotels
Get a hotel room.
If you can't intimidate some high schooler to shut the fuck up you should grow a pair.
Are there any other hosteals you can move to? Any cheap hotels?
Its a hostel bro
Dude you are in a hostel! What else would you expect? If you want quiet book a private room.
this is something you have to put up with. you pays your money, you takes your choice.
Pee all over their bags
Just stay in a hotel
No, no, hostels are great! You'll meet lots of people! Think of all the livelong friend you'll make! /s
[deleted]
Ive asked but the staff aren't willing to do anything and there are no available rooms
Likewise. I shipped out of a hostel before when a school trip showed up to stay and the only quiet time the whole night was between 4 and 6 am. Got myself a place at an aparthotel instead and decided I'm officially too old for hostels!
[deleted]
Wait, you’re expecting OP to talk with people IRL? Sir, this is Reddit.
I've asked, but there are no rooms I can get moved too and the staff aren't going to do anything
I've talked to staff. They aren't going to do anything and there are no rooms I can be moved to. Apparently this group has booked the entire hostel except for my bed
Was this in Germany or so because in LatAm nobody seems to care about noise, especially not at hostels.
I would be noisy as hell while they're sleeping during the day.
OP, do this only if you plan to leave the same day. Cause I hope everyone realises that by doing this, things will get worse the next night.
This is what vuvuzelas were invented for
harmonicaaaaa lol
Buy a banjo. Practice only when everyone else is sleeping.

if they have girlfriends over, stand over their bed and ask, "What are you guys doing?"
Well considering they start blasting music at 6:30. Wouldn't do much
That requires OP opening their mouth and speaking!
You don't even need a private room. Literally just go to a different hostel, the odds of this kind of situation happening at all are pretty low. I've stayed in hostels for most of the past two years and it was very rarely this bad (or bad at all).
How is it shitty. 

The majority of the room wants to do things one way or another 

The sole person who wants it another way shouldn’t expect them to bend to his will
That's good advice, however two problems. I'm in Oaxaca, and I'm below 18 so this is the only hostel I've found that will let me check in by myself.
*likelihood
Oaxaca. And these are the first really disrespectful people I've met.
Dorms are a young person’s game. I stopped staying in dorms and started taking privates when I was about 25, I just needed my sleep more and I can’t roll the dice on it. I’ve just left a hostel and the people staying at n the dorms did nothing all day because they were all so tired - it ruins your trip.
Yeah, if they're here tonight, I'm going to start blasting banjo music as soon as they seem to be trying to sleep
Lol, yeah "wake up" at 5, "snooze" until 6:30. Then turn on all the lights to get dressed and "forget" to turn them off when you go shower, where you just so happen to love singing.
Terrible idea 

Imagine 1 person out of a 10 person room starts being loud because the other 9 won’t do things his way at the same timeline he wants 

That’s a jackass move
That's just your preference and experience.
Yeah, that's good advice. However, I'm a minor traveling alone. And this means my options for hostels is very limited. And I've spoken to staff, they're not gonna do anything
Yeah, I can't currently afford staying in a private room. Here it's 3 x more expensive
Haha 😄 love what I'm picturing 😆 lol
Yeah, I would agree. But both nights it's wasn't just 2 am. The only quite time was 4-6:30. And at 6:30 they start blasting some music while getting ready
Terrible idea 

Now you’re the sole dickhead in a room that’s being a dick because everyone else won’t do things your way 

9 v 1. Everyone else wants to do things a different way 

You are not entitled to have it your way and then cause chaos if it doesn’t go your way when you’re outvoted
WOW that's some really good advice.
I would also be confused by that. However I have talked to the staff.
[deleted]
OP is under 18
Fair point. I was not a full insult-thinking ability last night due to the fact that these bitch ass motherfuckers are partying all night
Male, below the age of 18 and on a tight budget. Not leaving me a ton of options lol
If you can’t move and the staff won’t do anything then get a sleeping mask, put some headphones on and play some white noise. Ask the staff every day if there are other beds available. Consider changing your travel plans and go to another city. Stay out of the room as long as possible.
I'll let you know after I leave. Not tryna dox myself hahah
Tf am I gonna do, stay in a hostel in my own country???
Yeah, I was a little mad. I don't really care anymore. They left yesterday. And if I had taken a hotel I could only have stayed in Mexico for 5 days instead of 30.
How tf am I supposed to control 8 guys who are all bigger than me?
Because a hostel is 1/3 the price
I understand that if you want dead quite you shouldn't go for a hostel. But blasting music all night except between 4 and 6:30 is not what you sign up for for a hostel. I pray I never have you as a roommate
No, however I have been considering leaving a rotten mango in there bags before they leave. Then I just pray they're flying somewhere and I'm sure tsa will be fun for them
> They also paid for the room and can use it as they wish.

That's not how hostels work, buddy.
Leave and slam them in reviews. Talk about how the place is overrun with high schoolers and non-guests. Say you tried to remedy this offline but the hostel ignored you, leading you to believe this is common practice and worth writing a review about to warn other travelers. 

Also I would dispute it in credit card. You didn’t get what you paid for.
Then your option is to go somewhere else
Just leave. Take the loss and find somewhere you can get a good sleep
Oh man, school groups will 1000% test your patience 🤣 also you're never too old for a hostel 👍 only what level of comfort you want.
Then go to the reception and say "I paid for a bed to sleep. I can't sleep so you either enforce hostel rules in my dorm so I can sleep, move me to a different room or you give me back my money so I can go find a place where they provide the service I am paying for (which is a bed in a room where I can sleep)"
But you’re not op?
And who are you?
You can't get karma from talking to people irl
Meanwhile, op says they actually did ask and got no help
Move to a different hostel.
move hostels
And leave shit reviews everywhere if the staff won't help
Sounds like you just have to take the L on this hostel and move to another. Then write a scathing review about how useless the hostel staff are
Ouch 😬
Well, if you can afford it, go somewhere else. Failing that, invest in some ear plugs
Did you ask them for your money back for the remainder? Have you looked for other lodgings?
Haha UK. Birmingham. Had to stay there for work a few times over the years. We got told we'd have to leave if we got noise complaints....next time we stayed there a staff member was absolutely shit faced and watching people sleep or trying to wake them up to come and drink vodka with him. Fucking bizarre place 😂
kumbay - wait a minute

kumb-wait, no

kumbaya- oops wait a minute

ku- wait

kumbay-no, hang on

kumb-\*sigh\*

kumba-wait, ill get it
Why is everyone missing the point that it'll cost OP extra money? I'm all for having an emergency fund while travelling but wouldn't it piss you off, too to have to pay twice for something because of inconsiderate teenagers?
The problem is that OP paid in cash beforehand, not sure how long they were planning to stay and how much money they'd lose. Many backpackers are traveling on a small budget. Congrats to you if money isn't an issue. But for some people it is.
I’m sorry you’re having to deal with this. I hope they leave soon.
[deleted]
If the staff you talked to was ignorant, just try later when someone else is at the reception desk. Maybe they are more understanding of your problem. 

(Btw. over-ear noise cancelling headphones are a bliss for traveling. I often sleep with them when I am staying at hostel dorms.)
Lol at 25? Don't know what places you stayed. But travelled almost 2 years when I was 26. And only stayed in hostels, average person was around 25-28 at that time. Plenty of 30 year to 35 years olds too. 

Depends where you, if you go to party places like Cancun, Thailand or Bali yeah it's fucked.

Anywhere else is great.

Hell I even stay in hostels now and I'm 34.
Nah, I am 45 and still staying at dorms regularly when traveling. From my experience the biggest difference is party-hostels in popular tourist destinations vs. hostels in more exotic locations where you find more experiences backpackers that are usually more considerate. 

Last time I stayed at a St. Christopher's in Barcelona, the girl in the bunk above me brought home some Latino guy at 3am and they shagged for what seemed like an eternity. Meanwhile in Patagonia I met some great people at my dorm and had zero such issues.
Lol it's not a young person's game, almost all dorms that I've been in have been fine and I'm certainly not anywhere near 25.
Absolutely.

That's why hostels (most of them) have an upper age limit of 35 because they know that anyone older is just done with that 5am bedtime and partying all night nonsense.

You can get some CHEAP accommodation if you look properly. I'm unsure why hostels are the only go-to. Plenty of jigs you can do with your budget to ensure you get a good night's sleep.
What if I told you

Doing things at night instead of the morning isn’t “ruining” your trip
Not the most favourable idea? Yes, it was also a bit of sarkasmus in it.

But I disagree with the timeline argument. A hostel dorm should try to respect the needs of all the guests in it. In addition there are certain things you should be able to expect from the dorm, like trying to have a sleep environment during sleeping hours.

By your logic, the 10th person looses their right to sleep on their vacation. The person might have plans to go to museums/places/tours while the others might not care about such things. So is the person not entitled to go there with a good rest the night before?
What do you not understand about "not mandatory"? That literally implies that it's about options and preferences.
This makes a bit more sense
What the fuck

You’re their age?? 

Just join them. Why you sleeping so early. Go party too
Yeah, those are good ideas. I might just try and make their stay as miserable as mine. Some rotten mango, banjo music and maybe a rat or two should do the trick
30 days in Mexico, wow I understand now. I went to Cancun, Mexico in 2016 for a couple days and I really would like to visit Mexico City; however, I couldn’t do hostels. I have not had a roommate since the early 2000s. I am to used to my privacy, but that’s pretty cool that you are staying in Mexico for a whole month.
I fly with fruit all the time. TSA won't give a shit.
Yeah, that's my current plan. I don't think there's much I can do other than warn others and try and make my stay as comfortable as possible.

However I paid with cash, so that's a lost cause.
I’d also record what you’re experiencing and add the video to the review, as proof.
> Leave and slam them in reviews.

Leave fersure, but “slam them in the reviews”… i mean what realistically should they do? They dont have a room to move him too, and OP has already said majority of his stay there was good. 

It just sounds like OP is getting the shit end of the hostel experience, but only briefly. He even had “the hostel all to myself”. Is that part gonna make it into the angry review? Prolly not
Its a nine person room in a hostel. I think your expectations are way too high.
They got what they paid for, a bed.
he got a room to sleep in. by definition he got what he paid for unless it's specifically stated in the clause that at a certain time people aren't allowed to make significant amounts of noise or invite people over
Loss aversion
Yes absolutely agree
Then they say "Sorry, no refunds, shadow girl."
Op talked to people

But yeah .. ha ha ha
Using earplugs is one of the first things I started doing when sleeping in hostels. It's insane to not use them, even in a room with normal people 
This!
True at this point you could have just gotten a cheap hotel
Fair point, but I think in this case you'd be entitled to a refund for the days the high schoolers showed up. At least, I would fight for that. However, I understand that's a bit confrontational and not for everybody
That is what an emergency fund is there for - to get you out of situations. Sometimes you just have to eat it and pay.
Extra money... It's a 9 bed room in Mexico what can it cost? 10 bucks? 
What are you on about? All they have to do is use their voice and brain at the same time and speak to the staff and stick up for themselves. Why are *you* acting like they aren’t capable of asking to switch rooms or have the staff talk to the kids about shutting up because guests have complained. 

Short of that they have to go to a different hostel. Shit happens when you’re traveling so if $14 extra a night breaks your budget you shouldn’t have gone?

You and OP want some magic third answer that doesn’t exist. 🤡
No it wouldn’t  

If 9 people of out 10 are okay with how a room is

The issue is me. And I don’t like it. I should dip into my fund to move hostels
Nah. You shouldn’t travel if $10 a night more for a different hostel breaks your budget. Quit acting like that’s a smart or reasonable way to do it. That’s a horrible lesson to endorse. Things happen while traveling and you shouldn’t be at a loss if something comes up.
Fuckin join in the festivities wtf
They are complaining about them being loud, not their age. If you're in HS and want to be chill then awesome.
Great? Yeah if you like endless snoring. I guess you are a person that sleeps easy.
> Hell I even stay in hostels now and I'm 34.

Club of grumpy hostel grandpas! Yeah!
If you go to a party city 

What are you really waking up in the morning for 

You should be partying
Most hostels dont have a age limit at all. 

Only a few, and those are the crappy party hostels in crappy places like Bali, Cancun or Thailand.
> That's why hostels (most of them) have an upper age limit of 35 because they know that anyone older is just done with that 5am bedtime and partying all night nonsense.

I've never seen  a hostel with an age limit. Guess you really have to search for them. And I've been to around 70-80 of them the last years without reading their t&c. I'm way above 35 and never had a problem.

But yes, advantage of being a wealthy old fart: private room only please. The social life in hostels is great, the shared bedrooms suck.

Good sleep is very very very important for me. Even 15 years ago when I was younger.
Hostel age limits are more of a thing in South east Asia but outside of there I'm not too sure. Definitely not a thing in South America.
I’ve stayed in 20+ hostels and only 1 had an upper age limit so I wouldn’t say “most”
Yes. The majority rules 

That’s the gamble you take with using hostels 

want to do things your way? Buy a room not a bed.
It's the tone of voice and specifically the last sentence that I'm referring to. Using sarcasm with the quote marks and stating that something is almost always the best option, is not a great example of showing that you can have options and preferences. If anything, it's bitter.

Could just have said something like "I prefer hotels and private rooms to get a good nights sleep. I do most things by myself and find the social aspect of hostels overrated". 

But I'll take the downvotes, I know how the internet works.
Hahaha, Thank you! If you ever get the chance you should absolutely visit Oaxaca. Especially during July, which is the Guelaguetza festival. Its gotta be the most culturally rich place I've ever been
Remember to set your alarm to the loudest setting and don’t forget your morning ritual of Mongolian throat singing!
You say you are also under 18. 

For what it’s worth, I worked in the criminal justice field and as much as young folk want a cool place to stay it is a MAJOR red flag when hotels/hostels allow minors to say on their property without an adult.

No offense but you aren’t spending enough money to make it worth their time so why so much older adults want kids staying there? Super creepy red flags.

Where I am from it’s usually because: trafficking (sex or drugs), pedo behavior (cameras? Or waiting for teenagers to get drunk before taking advantage) Or, hopefully, it’s just a cover for other illegal activity that doesn’t involve children (money laundering, tax evasion). 

Very sketchy and frankly as an adult I would be totally peeved out at the idea of other adults being ok with this. 

Again no offense, I know some teenagers just want the chance to have a good time but I’ve seen a lot of terrible shit as my job in the criminal justice system and the worst of the worst usually involved hotels/hostels “turning a blind eye” to minors. Be very careful.
That’s the best attitude tbh. We will all find ourselves in unfortunate circumstances. Playing the hand one is dealt is always an option and can lead to surprising results. Good luck!
Seriously, if you ca n afford it, change hostels. Yes, you pay twice but his is your life
[removed]
Refund his remaining nights so he can move hostels.
They can certainly enforce their own rules. If lights out time is 10PM and they don't have lights out and are being noisy the staff can come in and say "lights out and you're being noisy". If they still don't respect that kick them out. That's a responsibility of the hostel.
Then I'll make sure I leave a review and a complaint.
I would be afraid of not hearing something, but I guess a woman wouldn’t be able to stay in a setting like that to begin with.
They also paid cash so if the hostel doesn't want to refund them there's not much else that can be done.
What areYOU on about? After OP has written multiple times that they have talked to the hostel staff already and are underage, thus have a much harder time to switch places? Yes, there is no magic third answer but it's pretty fucking easy to comment that without making a disrespectful comment that implies that OP was stupid and lazy. I want to see you how you used to handle solo travel at 17.
Never got bothered by snoring. 

There's also something like earplugs, does magic.
Lol not at all. But guess you have no clue what you're on about.

The nicest and most interesting people I met when travelling when I was younger were 30+. 

Coolest dude ever was this 70 year old in Nepal, with crazy stories.

Hostels are not just about partying.
Oh they are around here and there, depends where you are in the world.
Any advice on how to stay safe for the remainder of my trip?
One explanation is that it could be a school trip and the adults/chaperones are staying in another room. Seen that a few times traveling though definitely find it annoying as another guest.  They wouldn't typically put them in with randoms but can't say I'd be shocked by a cash only style place in Mexico doing that.  


 It would also explain why the while place is booked if it's effectively taken over by that your group. 
I don’t think shutting down an entire noncooperative business over an inconvenience is the way to go, but useful advice.
This, there is a magical thing, a little more expensive, called single room, even in hostels! I'm now too old for dorms (I want my quiet time and snore loud enough to be killed in my sleep) and have switched to single room.
[removed]
>There's also something like earplugs, does magic.

Lol earplugs do not block out snoring. I guess you do sleep easy!
Well. I'm older than you. So most likely I know it ;-)

Now get off my lawn!
Just have fun but keep your “stranger-danger” senses up. Don’t leave your stuff unattended. Don’t take everything someone says at face value, like you don’t have to distrust everything everyone says but always keep in the back of your mind that this person could be lying. Don’t get black out drunk. Don’t leave your drinks unattended. Make sure you have a small lock for your bags.
Book online, don’t pay cash!!
Would people on school trips be staying in hostels?
[removed]
Sounds like it's time for your nap, huh?
Or you have troubles sleeping... I'm 30 and still go to hostels, never had any problem.
Alright, I'm already doing most that stuff. But thanks for the advice
It's cheap and has rooms that can accommodate a lot of people
Yep
You meant to reply to r/Primary-Plantain-758. They’re the one having a meltdown. 🥱
I just don't snore. About half of men do. Maybe those OK with it are the snorers! They probs are the ones keeping others awake. 

If you're female it's less of a problem.
I don't think you understand irony
I'm a woman and got told by partners that I don't snore. Sure snoring *can* be bothering, but it would have to be extreme for it to disturb my sleep if I'm wearing plugs.
Most women don't snore, it's much more of a problem with men. So women's dorms will have lot fewer snorers. 

Anyway, I don't find earplugs very effective. I've tried many, they don't block much sound. The only way to block snoring is using headphones but that has its own problems.

Anyway, I avoid dorms like the plague these days.
I had a piano technician “detune” my piano to sound like a saloon piano.
[OC] from the pandemic times.
Honky-tonk! Very nice. Good playing too <3
As a qualified piano tuner, I think you should know - your piano likely hasn't been de-tuned.
The tuner has probably removed the unisons so that strings 1&2 oscillate at a different hz to string 3.
It's called Musette tuning....often done for ragtime pianos and French accordians.

Also, I wonder if he put thumbtacks in the hammers as well
As a piano tech, I would welcome a call like this after spending 4 decades trying to make saloon pianos sound like a musical instrument.
I should play more cuphead, great game
This is awesome.  What the hell does de-tuning mean though?
That sounds great - is there anywhere that pianos do just drift out like that, ie fairly evenly across the whole range, or was it always done for effect?
Every out-of-tune piano I've come across just sounds a bit naff, or has most notes ok-ish but a few that have really slipped
Post the full song please! Sounds great
This song brings me joy
That’s bad ass.
Not long enough! More! Nice job.
That's pretty damned cool. Nice playing too 🤘
Perfect for rag time!!! I feel like I’m at Disneyland!! 😊
Is that Maple leaf rag?
What's the name of the tune?
That is so badass lol I love it!! It’s like a Honkytonk piano sound!!
I inherited my grandparents piano that sounds just like this after 20ish years of no tuning. And I also love playing Maple Leaf Rag on it lol
sounds funky but you probably could have achieved the same effect after a period of time purely by striking the keys the way you do...
Could you share which piano model is this? We would like to buy a new piano and are looking for  similar model.
I love it but even as a huge honkey tonk aficionado I’d get tired of it at some point
Many digital pianos, workstation keyboards, and other synthesizers typically have a honky-tonk preset like that.  And with the touch of a button, you're back to a normally-tuned piano.
question, were pianos tuned like that or the sound was a consequence of poorly mantained pianos?
Wish this piano was on pianobook, it has some serious soul
I asked them to tune the piano for me and it ended up like this. It wasn't the goal. The technician asking me "is this ok?" And I'm "are you making fun of me? Are you hearing the same thing as me? It can't be possible" 
... More than 3 hours of war at the piano 😂😭😭😭
So good
This is my go-to piece to play whenever I encounter an out of tune piano
Nice. Also check this out - Yul Brynner on piano in a saloon bar :  [https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zP4s-wP8cWU&t=26s](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zP4s-wP8cWU&t=26s)
I wish my piano DIDN’T sound like that!!!🤣
Very cool! I am wondering though for the bit with the rising arpeggios I thought it was Ab, Cb, Ab with the right hand but I think you play it in a different way here?
What is this tune you’re playing? I’ve heard it my whole life, I just don’t know what it is.
It's like i'm playing Cuphead
Scott Joplin. nice ragtime sir
What's a saloon piano?
Very cartoony loll
Honestly I hate that more than words can express
Thank you Mr. doom!
Yes! What would you call it that he did then?
Doesn't sound "de-tuned" at all.  Sounds like a tack piano.
Removed?
I believe within the synthesizer world, that setting is called a detuner. Where you replicate the synth sound and set it to be a few cents/hertz off from the core pitch.
Can you explain a bit more so that I can set up my digital piano this way?
Wouldn’t that technically be “de-tuning”? Since two of the three strings are not set to standard pitch?
🙄 duh!
He didn’t but I did for one song
The piano tech made my sound board a little out of tune to make the sounds you are hearing.
Detune is when more than one oscillators are active and one is slightly out of pitch from the other one. As the wave forms interact it creates phasing, the faster the phasing the further away the two oscillators are. In the case of a piano the oscillators are the multiple strings triggered by one note.
Humidity can do this to pianos over time.
I think it was also done intentionally to make the sound harsher so it would be better at cutting through background noise. Similar to pushing thumbtacks into the hammers.
I only made a short video for Imgur. Years ago. I do have the cantina song(Star Wars) with the same piano!
Thank you gloomy!
Yes!
Maple leaf rag
Thank you!
This is an aerosonic spinnet and i absolutely love it! I used to sell pianos for a living and this one is the tits? ( I’m old. Do young people talk this way?)
What fun is that though?
You might need another piano tech!
Thanks!
I think I played it the way Joplin played it. I could be wrong though
Maple leaf rag
Then move along. What’s your issue? Personally I think it’s cool
Why lol
I’m so sorry about that!
Glad I’m happier than you
You've got both gloom and doom answering!  Hope we didn't bring you down.
I think the point is that it could still be A≈440 but the the A strings are a little bit either side of 440. And similarly for the other strings. 

So the pitch is right, but (if I recall for honky tonk) off from each other by around 8-10 cents.
He widened the unisons
Well, it's not a unison anymore, we have to have three strings at the same pitch for a unison to exist. The tuner changed the pitch on one of the three strings for each key, hence the honky tonk sound :)
Yeah sure.  I'm happy to sometimes not be gloomy when making comments.  Gotta ask though - are you just 100% all in on playing stride and old timey style tunes or do you have two or more keyboards for that?  Even though you have a pretty authentic out of tune sound going on, what do you do when you want to play something that needs a purer sound?
I play it as well!
Is that Scott Joplin's?
> ( I’m old. Do young people talk this way?)

Not sure if 30's is young enough to be considered "young people" anymore but I'll say that if I had a friend suggest that something was "the tits" I would know he meant that it was awesome.  

I think any younger than me and they probably have different slang where they refer to shit as "pure fire" or whatever. I think terms like "the tits" were more popular among people who are now around 40ish years old when they were in college.  

I think people around my age might be more inclined to say it ironically, in a sentence like "That, my good man, is what some might refer to as 'the tits.'"  

But either way I wouldn't find it weird if anyone from ages 20-40 said "the tits" unironically when referring to something cool - so I think you're OK. Though I think "the shit" would easily edge it out in popularity.
Never again haha
I had moved along. Now you brought me back.
It's the trifecta.

An overplayed tune I hate

The sound of an out of tune piano

A person intentionally making their instrument out of tune by paying extra money
Are you though?
I didn’t know where was specific criteria for a honky tonk. This is really interesting! 

That’s got to take some skill to get the tuning within that tolerance consistently. Or maybe just as much skill as tuning all strings for a given note exactly the same.
Some would say he detuned them by 8-10 cents
Tightened
I have my tech come and re-tune it.
Yes
I think so :)
My tech researched it thoroughly before doing it.
Again from memory, and I'm not a professional piano tuner (though I do tune my own), a perfectly tuned piano where all the strings are exactly at the right frequency will sound dull (though of course this would be extremely difficult to achieve). It's a matter of personal preference, but a couple of cents off produces about the right brightness for a classical piano.
Widened. 

The unisons are further apart.
Cool. That's a nice option. If I still had a real piano I'd probably let it go out of tune for that purpose.
[removed]
Seems like they did a great job, sounds just like a honky tonk to me. 

Why did you get your piano set up like this? Do you exclusively play ragtime, stride, early jazz, etc?
I wouldn't say it's difficult to achieve, you just tune each key to its nominal equal temperament frequency with an electronic tuner. Agreed that it would sound awful though.

A string that is perfectly flexible has overtones that are exact multiples of its fundamental frequency. If an ideal vibrating string has a fundamental frequency of 440Hz, its first overtone vibrates at exactly 880Hz, its second at 1760Hz, and so on.

Piano strings behave very closely to ideal strings, but because they're made of metal that isn't perfectly flexible, the overtones aren't exact multiples of the fundamental frequency.

In practice, that means that the first overtone of A440 isn't 880Hz, it's 881Hz or something slightly above the fundamental frequency, and the second overtone is something like 1764Hz. The exact frequency deviation from nominal is highly dependent on a given piano's scale design and quirks.

This phenomenon is commonly called *inharmonicity.* If you were to tune each key on a piano to its exact nominal frequency, it would sound awful because none of the overtones would align. They are *inharmonic*.

If you tuned A4 to 440Hz and A5 to 880Hz exactly and then played those two keys together you would hear a slight beating as the first overtone of A440 is slightly higher than 880Hz, but A5 is tuned to *exactly* 880Hz.

To deal with this reality, piano tuners "stretch" the notes. They tune the treble side slightly higher than nominal and the bass side slightly lower in order to better align the overtones. In the example above, the tuner would likely tune A5 to match the first overtone of A4 as closely as possible. The [Railsback curve](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Piano_acoustics#/media/File:Railsback2.png) illustrates this.

Tuning is an art because each key on the piano has many overtones that align with the fundamental frequency of the notes above it, but you can't align all of them perfectly because of inharmonicity. The best you can do is find a frequency that aligns with the most prominent sounding overtones above the key you're working on. It's a balancing act.

Lower inharmonicity is one of the main reasons that a tall upright piano sounds better than a console piano, and a nine foot concert grand piano sounds so much better than a five foot parlor grand. Longer strings have more room to flex and behave closer to ideal strings, and thus have less inharmonicity. Tuners can achieve a better alignment of the overtones, resulting in a more harmonic sound.
Thanks for the information. I’m building a harpsichord at the moment that will have 3 voices. 2 of these voices will be of the same type (8’). I’ll be using an uneven temperament and historical pitch (A415), but I wonder if tuning those voices a couple of cents out each will have the same effect?
:(
Because I was bored. Pandemic times.
Wow, what an excellent and informative comment! I learned many new and interesting things. Thanks for taking the time to write this.
I find it difficult to be that precise with my tuning wrench; I guess someone more experienced and with a better wrench can hit the spot more precisely.

But thanks for the explanation of why stretch tuning works. I knew the principle but didn't quite understand the physics; that makes complete sense now.
While your explanation of sting inharmonicy is very good that is not the reason for octave stretching. The human ear's pitch perception isn't perfectly logarithmic in the extremes of the hearing range. You need stretching even with perfect digitally generated sinus tones.
Just don’t do the diabolus in musica. Don’t make things worse than they are now.
I wonder. Because the string is plucked, not hammered, the sound produced is quite different in nature, so this tuning effect might also not apply in the same way.
Pleae don't. The slight intentional detuning of two or more strings in pianos takes advantage of a physical phenomen called "coupling". The string will start to vibrate at the same pitch after a short while - this results in a slightly softer attack and a longer sustain. The two 8' registers of a harpsichord are too far away for this to happen, it will just sound terribly out of tune.
Good idea for reducing boredom I must say. I wouldn’t have thought to do that 😂
Probably gave the tech a solid pandemic rabbit hole to occupy the time as well
What’s the diablous in musica?
I’m quite new to this so not sure myself. I have a spinet at home which only has a single voice so no issues there. I’ve also got a clavichord which does have two voices per key but I didn’t think to do it with that! 

I wonder if there’s a convention beyond the piano for other multi-voiced string instruments like mandolins etc?
Thanks for the heads up, appreciate it seeing as I’m new to this, especially the aspect of tuning these instruments. 

Although the two voices are closer on a clavichords, can I assume the same rule might need to be applied when tuning it too?
I was trying to be smart. (which I am not) it was the forbidden interval when the harpsichord was popular. I think…
Well, as a lute player I can tell you that it's nearly impossible to tune the tow strings of a course to the exact same pitch. But the differences are  pretty small (and, please, not lute player jokes here :-)
Oh you mean the wolf interval! I’d say that’s smart to know about that, I’d just never heard that term for it. 

Really interesting read if you’re curious. The development of temperaments across that period was concerned with a couple of main things and one of them being spreading the comma out so that interval you reduce the harshness of that interval and use more key signatures (and their chords). 

We’ve got equal temperament now for almost everything but take a look at temperaments like 1/4 comma mean tone, Werckmeister III, Valotti. It’s a total can of worms hidden down a rabbit hole and I find it super interesting.

Edit: I was wrong, the diabolus in musica is another name for a tritone! https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tritone

Every day is a school day.
Urban folklore/myth. The tritone was never forbidden.
Violinist friend challenged me to play that one bar as a joke, but little did he know I'm too poor to buy an acoustic piano. 
Why isn't there a fluff flair this is why people think we're boring man
If you can open the lid quickly enough ¯\_(ツ)_/¯
checkmate violinists
Thinking outside the box!
check mate acoustic piano
I've actually taught myself to do a sforzando on a real piano by "slamming' the keys with the damper peddle pushed down, and then doing a quick 75% refresh of the peddle to somewhat dampen the sound. It's a little bit different on every piano though
I will happily volunteer to play the left hand part for you!
this comment section needs more magnetic resonator piano https://youtu.be/f79d_oVqv4Y
😆
[deleted]
How tf do you go from piano to forte in an acoustic piano
Thank you for this!
> Why isn't there a fluff flair this is why people think we're boring man


Probably because subs that allow and/or support shitposting tend to have like 90% shitposting, because memes and cheap laughs get more engagement than proper discussions.


I don't mind people thinking I'm boring, and generally think it's better to have separate meme subs so people can visit the boring one or the meme-y one depending on which they prefer


Anyway, you 1 violinist friend 0, good job!
Your left hand crescendo was missing
Send them a bar of a 7 note chord and ask them to  play it.
(ツ)_/¯ \\ Here, you dropped this.
The delivery and retuning is... not.
The elites don't want you to know this, but acoustic pianos are free. You can take them home. I have 458 acoustic pianos.
How common is it to find a nice one though?
That's the joke, *you dont*
That's just my tendonitis
[deleted]
*Laughs in pipe organ*
This gave me a splendid chuckle. Thank you for getting my morning going with a good laugh.
actually in my 15years of playing and studying I’ve come across a few pieces who have a crescendo on whole notes. it‘s obviously not possible to do so and very rare to see. but it‘s a different thinking process if there is suddenly a crescendo on a whole note instead of just 2 dynamic marks. 

if i have time, i‘ll check my scores at home later and see if i find the pieces:)
It's like the haiku bot only way more bizarre and harder to read, wild.
Sadly not all organs have that ability, but the ones that do are so nice to play
Absolutely. In fact, the organ I currently practice on is a small, single manual tracker in a little village church. It’s a lovely instrument that’s over 100 years old with a lot of stories to tell, none of which involve a swell!
Kinda beginner though, playing since 2.5 Months now.. opinion?
Hey I've been practising this song since 2 and a half weeks now. I can't read sheet music yet lmaoo.. pls rate my playing and technique:)

(edit: this is ofc a joke, a reference to all the fake prodigies making themself ridiculous for attention)
This post is satire.
Good technique, I can tell you're a speedcuber.
This is far too hard for two and a half months. Try an easier piece like Rach 3, especially the third movement. 
Can you play Mary had a little Lamb though?
Ling Ling already better than you. Give up.
nah bro that posture 💀
No way you have been playing since 2.5 months, maximum of 1 month. This piece is the most beginner piece of all, thats why its the first in the series ofcourse.


(All jokes aside, very very nice playing, sounds amazing)
Do you learn this easy piece by synthesia?
The “my original composition” lol
I learned this on the first day bro (with the thing where the notes drop down)  
Kinda cringe that you took so long 😔
Bro skipped 6 years
Noooob it took you 2.5 months 💀
Mate, i learned this piece one afternoon while on the toilet scrolling through Instagram with one hand and reaching out to the piano with the other playing this. Took you too long.
For 2 and a half weeks this is far behind the schedule. You should have already grown a third arm and fifth leg. 

Try something for beginners like Hammerklavier
2.5 months? Sorry to say but this prob isn’t ur thing then
Brother get those wrists down 💀 your tendons are going to quit
It's too slow bro you need to practice your speed
Noob.
Way too sloppy. I think it's best if you just quit
Well you will have complete opus 10 and 25 by Christmas then 👍
bro has abysmal wrists
I knew I had to download simply piano
Nice but can you do it with one hand? When I started playing piano I started with one hand. Can you do that too?
[removed]
is r/pianocirclejerk not a thing?

Edit: Ofc it is. But wow how is it THIS small 😳
In all seriousness, you play wonderfully!
Playing sounds good but your posture could lead you to some serious carpal tunnel in the hands and fingers should be curved, and your wrist should be the same level as your forearm. Other than that your all good
Kinda sloppy but keep going and don't give up
Mehh pretty mid should be faster
Lol. Took you that long to play it? Hell I played that in my first hour of playing pianto. Don't worry you'll get better ;)
it took you THIS long on a warm-up exercise? you’ll never make it as a pianist.
Is the joke the sheer level of tension in your hands?

Are you going for a tendonitis% speedrun or somethin?
Did speedcubing also help you ? Hahah
Sounds awful for 2.5 months, try beginner pieces like Melodie by Schumann, or maybe an early Mozart piece?
Always remember guys; "No matter how good you are, there is always one Asian who is better than you"
Go to tonebase on youtube and check out some of their videos.
Trying to breaking noob spirits?
My original composition is crazy 🗿🗿🗿
I am disappointed by this.. You can be way better in 2.5 months. You should do more speed cubing
Thats nothing, I only have one arm an could play gaspard de la nuit as an infant born in a warzone.
We'll soon be having a funeral for your right wrist.
I wonder why people call every piece of music a 'song'?  This is a piano piece, or composition, etc.  I always thought a song had words, unless it is a "song without words', a la Mendelssohn for example.  this is just me being picky,  but every piece of music is not a 'song'.
Pssh. This is week 3 stuff. Keep practicing
Satire aside fr tho... What piece is this? Driving me crazy tryna recall rn.
this is satire right ? why do you wanna feel bad about myself
Faaake! And funny.
Dude is trolling
I CAN ONLY DO FLOWER BY MILEY CIRUS ON 2MONTHS ! 😭
I played this when I was an hour old. Just give up 💀
This guy arpesheeos
I was ready to rage.
Sounds like since 2 o’clock. Waterfail! (😉)
Sidenote can somehow describe those runs in theory?
This is genuinely really good! My wrist hurts a little though watching.
it's the guy from the simply piano ads
I know for a fact you can’t play fur Elise
This is kinda rough man, you gotta put more effort into practice
"I'm a beginner guys, please don't judge me too hard."

*proceeds to perform a piece a master-level piece*

(I don't know anything about piano)
I was better than this at the end of my first day of learning
Even though its a no from me don’t be discouraged and don’t give up. One day you will sound decent!
Think you need another .5 months
Agonizing hand pain I see in your future.
Quality shitpost 👏
This is cool and stuff but can you at least speedcube?
Impressive!
man im unsuscribing this is bs
Yah - 2.5 (another word for month in your language must be) decade(s))
Uhh try an actual hard piece like Sorabji's Opus Clavicumbalisticum?
[removed]
Why is this being upvoted? This is Chopin… and no response by op.
Kinda slow progress if you ask me. I learned this on week 3
Bruh, you look an awful lot like Lang Lang hehe hahaha
Keep on trying, you’ll get there someday, noobie! 🙏
this is sight reading exercise bruh
Get your piano tuned
If you are a beginner, slow it down.
You need lessons
Meanwhile me failing at twinkle twinkle little start after five years
Wait until bro discovers scales 💀
Tune your piano bro
Learned it all by falling notes, right?
BS
You need to practice more tbh
You really should be able to play Godowsky’s variation of this ine by this point, your teacher is going too slow with you.
It took this dude over two months to learn this lol
Not good enough. Did you learn only this in the last 2 months ? Shame. You should have been able to play with the legs and the tongue too man.
honestly the song so soo easy. once ur wrist is immune to pain you wont be impressive any more not that you EVER were. frfrfrfr lolol

Also guys tell me how many people you know (including urself) have genuinely never touched a piano before then learn all of fur elise in a month
At the beginning I thought that I need at least 6 months to play piano well when I saw what you are doing I get impress and motivated to learn piano
That’s easy. Try the H scale
Bro followed a simply piano course 💀💀
Song name pleaseeee
Shows every sign of being a rank beginner. 

Go learn the Godowsky transcription of this etude, for the left hand alone, and get back to us in a couple of weeks. 

/s
I’d get that piano tuned.
How big are your hands? Curious because I’m working on this piece currently and am having trouble with some of the more awkward reaches
I played that in 2 weeks with both hands tied behind my back
does someone have the name of the song? Its beautiful
Careful, this piece is far too easy for someone with your ability and you shouldn’t waste time fooling around. You should be sitting rehearsals playing Rach 2 with orchestra or sight reading Bach 4 voice fugues backwards. Otherwise the next guy will come along and surpass you and you’ll never win the Chopin competition
Nice finger exercises. Aka scale type arpegg exercises. After these are done ..... we then get into music. Actual music.
Liar lmao
I bet you used Easy Piano daily. It makes sense! /s
Dude that was my first piece too!!! I learned it in a week tho, nerd
I played ballad 1 when i was 6 and it only took me 3 months from start. I guess people have different learning curves
You dont need to tell lies to make yourself feel better
what piece is that?

I see only the right hand, but it really has good flow. Ah good player is often not only good to listen to, but also to watch.
Sounds good, have you tried sitting a little farther back from the piano? You look crunched up, sitting really close in my opinion
i understand that reference 🤣🤣🤣
The fact that I get the reference 🤣
Oooohhhhh he's asking the real questions here.
Glen Gould boss posture 😁
Tendonitis speedrun any %
My joints ache after watching this
Grigory Sokolov ass posture
with SimplyPiano
....and you were only 2 months old! 😆
It took me just a few minutes... I don't know guys, I think you both progress slow, just give up.
I have nightmares with that piece. When I was 2 years old, my teacher forced me to learn it after a couple of weeks since I started learning how to play. It took me a whole hour to master it! The horror!
😂😂😂
[removed]
Try r/classical_circlejerk
you can always have r/guitarcirclejerk
Chopin Etude - Op.10, no.1 - HTH!
Comments that contain personal attacks, hate speech, trolling, derogatory/inflammatory/inappropriate remarks, and the like, are not welcome and will be removed. See Reddit's content policy for more examples of unwelcome content.
It's a troll post.
Relax your wrists.
Chopin Op 10 No 1
Chopin's Etude Op. 10 No. 1
It probably isn't a piece. It's finger exercises. Keeping the fingers exercised.
that post was... something
i don't get the refrence
i have it :/ (yeah, because of piano)
At which part of Simply Piano. 

Anyway, that's prodigy level progress. 

About 3 months into Simply Piano and still struggling with brain finger connection issues.
[https://www.reddit.com/r/piano/comments/1da1fq5/kinda\_beginner\_8\_months\_playing/](https://www.reddit.com/r/piano/comments/1da1fq5/kinda_beginner_8_months_playing/)
When you first open up the app, there is a test to see at which level you're at... it starts with easy test pieces like this one.
I really don’t think this post is as ridiculous as everyone is saying it is.
They mad.

But also - he's not a beginner.  That's not a beginner piece, and he's not learning or trying to learn beginner stuff.  Didn't really want conversation about it - just mainly wanted to provide proof.  Seems like reddit was craving humility that that OP didn't possess.
Hey! It is me from the post. I originally wanted to get advice on my technique. However, everyone just called it fake, so I don't really knew what to tell them lol. Also, I get that I shouldn't really learn those pieces, but I just want to enjoy piano before I drop it (getting into collage). Thankfully, I did get advice :)
Well, actual concert pianist here of 35 years experience playing. Be honest when presenting and specific with your questioning. Your technique is difficult to assess when viewing you from the back with grainy video. 

If you’ve really only been playing for eight months and that’s you, then you’re probably autistic at which point I would say, forget what anyone says and just play whatever you want however you want it, as long you’re enjoying yourself. 

If you’re lying because you feel lonely and want to make others feel inadequate and have actually been playing much longer, then you should first tell yourself “hey, self, I’m better than that” and then go find a pianist on YouTube you want to play like, take better footage of your playing, slow down your execution so that they can examine your fingering, and also show a variety of material. You can play piano very well, so that’s settled. But for example, I’d like to hear you create a slow tempo arrangement of Twinkle Twinkle Little Star focusing not on arpeggios but on gentle, explorative chord theory. 

Regardless, good job on being able to play well! I do mean that.
Thank you! It's not me from this post. I meant it was me from the post they were making reference to 😅
Trip report African American in Krakow Poland
So let me say that I’m African American and I was scared to go there based on what I heard about racism in Poland. I still decided to go there for a full week and…. Wow wow wow, must say that Krakow is now officially my favorite city in Europe.

Appearance: The city is absolutely beautiful, apparently the government is very strict and requires business owners to clean up the outside of their business, so unlike most of Europe you don’t see a ton of trash in front of restaurants. It was literally spotless!

People: From the moment I arrived the people were extremely friendly. Even though I was told that people would be mean since the winter is so harsh, everyone that I encountered smiled and was nice. Cars will even stop in the middle of a green light to let me and other pedestrians cross. Honestly the sweetest people that I’ve encountered Europe.

Food: Everything was absolutely delicious, all of the food is in huge portions the dumplings are very delicious, I’m not a fan of Pâté but for some reason the Pâté in Krakow was like crack lol it was absolutely delicious and usually came with every meal at most restaurants. In addition to the food being delicious everything is very affordable.

Places to see:
Wawel Castle- One of the most beautiful museums/castles that I have ever been to. It’s huge in two hours I was only able to see two exhibits because the castle is so huge. I really like the state rooms and the treasures. 

The Leaky Cauldron- A Harry Potter themed restaurant, the food is mainly sweets that are VERY sweet. I had the marshmallow pancakes and a white hot chocolate drink, boat very sweet but delicious and in total everything combined was less than $10 USD

Salt Mines- The salt mines was an excellent experience a lot of people suggested it to me and it was worth it. Underground but very cold though. I’d suggest a Viator guide. The guides mainly just provide transportation though.

Auschwitz-Birkenau- Obviously very sad but it was a beautiful tribute to the victims from the holocaust. I balled my eyes out when we went to the gas chambers. Very horrible part of history but great to see to the travesty of humanity.

Diversity- As I mentioned before I arrived people (who had never been to Poland) told me about how racist it was and I was expecting that. Furthest from the truth, looked for a barbershop before I arrived and immediately found an African owned barbershop near the Jewish district. I honestly didn’t see many black people in Poland but no one stared at me (even the polish say that polish stare at people, but I didn’t experience that) kids didn’t stare at me I actually get more states being black from kids in Latin America than I did in Poland. I didn’t get any mistreatment. I felt bad for believing the hype before I went about how racist the people are considering how nice everyone was.

Overall if you want to go to beautiful city in Europe with cheap prices and delicious food I’d highly suggest Krakow especially to my fellow African Americans.
Thanks for this trip report. I’m also an African American and have wanted to visit Poland. This was helpful to hear your positive experience.
[deleted]
I am SO GLAD to hear this! I commented on someone else's thread about how Poland and Krakow were super welcoming as a brown woman back in 2016 so super happy to hear your experience tallied. Sounds like you had a wonderful time!
Black man here who went to Krakow back in 2011 and loved it. 

The worst thing to happen to me was kid (around 7 years old) scowled and growled at me lol.  His mother was immediately embarrassed and quickly shuffled him along. It was hilarious and I still think about him over a decade later lol. I hope he's doing well.
My girlfriend is Polish. She tells me ‘Polish people aren’t racist - we hate everybody’
[deleted]
whole Poland is totally save in general :) I recommend Gdańsk a lot!
I love Poland so much that I stayed here forever, but I wanted to say something re:black people in Poland:

Recently there was an EU study where they asked 500 black people living in each country if they had ever felt discriminated, and Poland came last with a 9%. For a lot of people in Reddit this was a surprise, but not for me. 

See, what people in Europe don't like is poor immigrants. And poor black immigrants don't come to Poland. I know a lot of black people in Poland, and they are all highly educated, sought-after workers who speak perfect Polish, because the way they have come is as students, and when they finished their studies they stayed. Poland doesn't get the illegal immigrants Mediterranean countries get, so there is no stereotype of black person = unskilled poor immigrant. Black people in Poland are engineers, economists, physicians, doctors in physics...  People are much more bigoted against Ukrainians, per example.
As a 29 year old pole, i have seen 3 black people in poland, the diversity thing really depends on which part of poland youre visiting, krakow being a city that is often visited by tourists, will obviously have more diversity that other parts of poland
I’m Black and my father is darker and black (obvi) and we had better experiences with him in Krakow years ago than Greece and Italy (two places he had outlandishly racist experiences in). I just don’t think Black western travelers think if Poland as an option.
Agreed. I went to Kraków in 2018 and loved it! I want to go back because I never got to visit the salt mines. Gdańsk is another city I've been to in Poland. People do stare in Gdańsk because most of the tourists are domestic, but I never felt unwelcome.
My daughter is solo traveling in Krakow right now and echoes everything you said. Super clean, affordable, great food, lots of interesting sites, more diversity/tolerance for diversity than she expected. I visited Krakow as a solo traveler 30 years ago and loved it then…glad to hear it is still great!
I love Poland. I'm glad you enjoyed it
Thank you for this. My 3 brothers and I are in the process of getting Polish citizenship because our grandparents came to the US as Polish refugees after the war. I'm the only one from my generation who has been and I had a wonderful time and met so many family members. My oldest brother is black (we have the same mom but different dads) and he has a little anxiety about traveling there because he has heard similar things about racism. I'm glad to hear you had a good experience as a black American and hope he does as well. Kraków is STUNNING, so you made a good choice.
I'm polish and I'd like to offer some insights, as someone living in Kraków, after moving there from other part of the country. 

>So let me say that I’m African American and I was scared to go there based on what I heard about racism in Poland. I still decided to go there for a full week and…. Wow wow wow, must say that Krakow is now officially my favorite city in Europe.

You went to one of the most, if not THE most touristy city in Poland, and kept to the obvious tourist places and routes.

But regardless. When we say that poles are racist, we don't mean that you will be constantly pointed out on the streets, or rounded up, and beaten up. Most of the time it's not the case, unless you're unlucky and run into some hooligans looking to pick up a fight.

What we mean is that many people here, especially 30+, have no real experience ever meeting any PoC people, and tend to hold racist views on them, without often even knowing. When talking at work, they'll throw jokes like "I'm not racist, I have a color TV", and nobody will say a thing about that, people will laugh, or let it slide. They will repeat that black people in US are criminals, and that's why we don't have such crime here, because we're not that diverse nation. etc etc. That mild/ignorance based racist views. If you're a person doing any manual labor they'll think it's obviously because you are uneducated, and will look down on you. If you hold any "higher level" position they'll think it's because company had to fill a quota.

Views like that aren't obviously limited to PoC people. The same is if, for example, you're a romani - people will call you a gypsy, without realizing it's offensive, and will be thinking about jokes about eating debries or something. Same about ukrainians, who many still see as uneducated, jews etc, etc. 

This is especially true in non touristy cities, or cities where there are no big universities, that tend to attract more young, more "socially conscious" people.

Now, a lot of that is something you will not feel as a tourist. If you're at a restaurant you will not know what the server thinks about you, or other customers. You're a paying customer, so they will be nice to you, will smile and nod etc. 

&#x200B;

>no one stared at me (even the polish say that polish stare at people, but I didn’t experience that)

As for stares. I'm surprised whenever anyone says they expected that in Poland. From my experience living here for all my life, poles tend to never hold eye contact, and avoid ever showing it, or staring. We used to literally hit kids for staring, and "what you're staring at" used to be the first line to start a fight with someone. We instead tend to keep our faces neutral, look "into nothing", or keep our noses down, to not attract any attention, and not give attention to others. Maybe it's been changing with the younger generations now, but us 30+ defo were like that.

&#x200B;

>Cars will even stop in the middle of a green light to let me and other pedestrians cross.

That doesn't really have anything to do with people being nice, it's literally our driving law, that has recently been made even more pedestrian friendly. Pedestrians in Poland currently have right of way even before entering the pedestrian crossing. Cars are required to stop if anyone is even approaching the crossing. And many drivers here do, because the potential fines for getting cought by random cop walking by are more annoying that stopping and letting someone go.  At least in Cracow. Although traffic in Cracow is mostly one massive traffic jam anyway.
Btw not that we aren't nice, but cars have to always stop at crossings anyway because there is a massive fine for it 🤣
Krakow is a big city full of tourists so you weren't the first POC people had seen. This is why no one stared.

If you had gone to a smaller town you would've likely got stares.
Racism decreased A LOT in the past 5 years. There were, indeed, issues before. I don't know what happened but suddenly everyone embraced everyone, regardless of race/ country or even sexuality. It's a good change. 

When I moved to Krakow in 2019 I was upset, as LGBT expat and not even POC, but now I can say that it's a very good city and people are better than at any other time.
There's that black guy from the UK, Andre teaveler. He has a lot of videos on his YT channel he recorded in Poland. The thing with him is that he travels to rural areas  where - as we like to say in Poland - dogs bark with their asses. His agenda is so strong that even when he visited Warsaw he decided to go to an outskirt district and filmed trash cans - didn't even visit the city center or the old town. He had interactions with a looot of rural people and he never was harassed or frowned upon. There is that one video on his channel titled "racist profiling at a Polish market" or something like. Long story short some fat rural polish dad said "hakuna Matata" when he saw him. Racism behavior? If someone is aware then sure, in that case it was just ignorance, guy said it in a friendly way. Then Andre startet yelling how everyone at the market is racist, making a scene. When leaving the market he shoved a camera in some old man's face, the man said "don't record me" in polish, Andre cut the clip with the guy and later said that the guy was racist towards him. He just didn't want to have a camera in front of his face lol
Glad to hear you had a nice experience. And it’s nice to hear that stereotypes can be quashed. 

There are a few bad eggs, but that’s the same in any country. Poland has never had a history of persecuting Africans like the west. Hell, Poles who were sent to Haiti by the French to fight the uprising there switched sides.
Hi!!!! Also American POC here, I’m so happy to hear you loved Poland. I also LOVE LOVE Poland and especially Krakow - who knew there were such gems in that part of the world 🥹. I always say I’d much rather feel comfortable in Poland than in Germany / Western Europe lol come back soon!
I'm glad you enjoyed your time in Krakow. Hope it encouraged you to explore even more of Central and Eastern Europe. 

What were the opinions based on then? You mentioned you talked to people that had never been to Poland. I'm just curious how such strong views are formed.
Visited Poland very recently and finally decided to miss out on Krakow + Auschwitz due to my tight itinerary and not wanting to be destroyed from fatigue. Your post is really making me want to return! Definitely bookmarked for the future now!
Glad you had a good time overall, the mines were my highlight when I went, and our tour guide definitely had a sense of humour, lots of jokes although not a lot of depth to the information provided.
Sounds like an awesome trip- thanks for sharing the write up!
One of our favorites, we stayed close to the city center-15 min walk. So easy to walk everywhere. Put in almost 30k steps in one day just strolling.
I LOVED Krakow!
I went to Warsaw in 2021 and also had a great time. Clubbing in Warsaw was one of my favorite experiences. The food is GREAT and the people are Greater. I love Poland. Would definitely go back.
so glad you had such a wonderful experience!!
I’m glad to hear you had a great experience there! I’m also an AA and Poland has been on my radar for a while now. Especially since my city has a large Polish population and many direct flights there!
Yay! 

A friend of mine has been to Poland a couple of times and agrees with you that the food is amazing.
I remember your post , glad you had a good time , I think most of Europe will be like this for you if you give it a chance , there a racists in all countries sadly but I don’t think Europe is any different to anywhere else , so happy that you enjoyed .
that's awesome! I want to travel to Poland aswell. America is a crazy place that makes one think racism is at the heart of all interactions due to how the media has made its mission to do that, so nice to get to Europe as well to escape that mind virus.

You should do a YouTube channel, really enjoyed reading your trip reports
Disclaimer: I'm a "Polish passing" (i.e. white and Slavic) ~~expat~~ immigrant who's been living in Kraków for \~8 years, and I absolutely love this country. I do believe that Poland (especially Kraków) is a great place to visit for an African American. There are two caveats though:

* there is still xenophobia in Poland, it's just not directed toward Black people; instead, it's usually Middle Eastern people who have bad experiences in Poland
* while 99% of Poland is absolutely safe (and much safer than France, Belgium and Germany), the foreigners should avoid the football hooligans *(I mean – the locals should avoid them too, but they're already doing that)*
I don't think Poles are racist in generl. There are racists in every country, including Poland, but racism isn't and has never been part of our culture. It's an exception, and as such, when it happens, it causes a lot of stair. You might experience systemic racism in the US, but if it were to happen here, you would most likely hear about it on the publoc news the day after. Since there are not that many black people here, kids can be mean sometimes, because kids often don't like when someone is different, and it's not just about race, but I believe even these attitudes are changing. I am in particular proud about our history and that Poland was once of the most tolerant countries in the world, and even when they tried to make our soldiers fight against the black community in the past, they deserted and helped to set up the first independent black country of Haiti. One of the past presidents of Haiti called Polish pwople "White European Negroes".
Krakow is my absolute favourite city! Seen it in summer and winter having been 5 times already! Given the fact that the bar maids are probably hassled daily by men they still always treat you nicely if you treat them the same!
Krakow is always the best city in Poland, next to Warsaw.
People are very nice. It's very international.
You'll find people from almost every continent.

Try Zakopane as well. It's beautiful. 
Poland isn't like what you hear in the news.
I personally had the same opinion before.
Then, I visited Poland with a friend of mine and that changed my mind completely. It's a wonderful country. Very simple people. 
It's true the people aren't that westernised. But, that's how they're and it's their beauty. 

Would love to go back one day.
Krakow is a jewel regardless of who you are, glad you had a great experience, so did I.
Omg, I'm so happy you enjoyed your stay in Kraków and that you felt comfortable in Poland! The politics of our government don't reflect the views of most citizens. My city is quite diverse (Poznań) but the real deal is Warsaw. Sometimes when I exit the railway station I don't hear polish language at all lmao. But yeah, I'm always happy foreigners are interested in visiting my country. 
I remember Sol Campbell on TV stereotyping Poland as being a racial shit hole during the Euros. The guy was such an ignorant muppet
Another AA male here. I visited Krakow 5 years ago and loved it. Only negative thing was a racist skinhead rolling up to me in this bar, but the Polish fella I was drinking with diffused the situation. Every other person I met was warm and friendly. 
[deleted]
Loved Krakow. The food markets at the Jewish district should be a thing in every city. Food was cheap, delicious and the portions were huge which made me realize how bad shrinkflation has got in the US. Also noticed that straight up jaywalking even during a green light seems to be a societal norm there whereas any other part of the world you'd get nasty looks and/or some car horns
So happy to hear that, Poland is a very special place in Europe and although I'm Portuguese it is one of my top favourite places in Europe.

People aren't anything like you may read on the internet!

Tip: Cheap top 10 nature places in Europe to be amazed 😉
Yeah, people in Poland aren't racist if they can tell that you are a tourist, however I lived there (I am a brown latina) and my experience was a bit different, I don't blame the Polish though. The reason for them to also not be overly hostile to foreigners is cause, for the most part, they don't have them. 

Can't blame the countries where every third person is a foreigner either, obviously the people would be hostile to them, it is only natural behavior.
Nice to hear, I am glad you had a good time in Kraków!
I loved krakow when I went on a lads holiday few years back and absolutely want to go again on my own. The people are amazingly friendly and theirs so many ch I want to see without being drunk
Glad to hear that you enjoyed your stay in Poland! 
If you liked Kraków, I believe there is still a lot to discover. 

You may like other cities like Warsaw, Wrocław, Trójmiasto, or (when they finally finish renovation works in the center) Poznań. 

Polish nature is very beautiful; we have 23 national parks, each worth visiting, and in each, you will find stunning landmarks. 

Probably the Baltic Sea is not the best place to recommend, but definitely, you should visit Mazury, which is the Kraina Jezior (Land of Lakes), or the mountain ranges.
Planning to go there early march! Also African American!
Isn't there a museum with Leonardo's masterpiece, Lady with Ermine? Would love to visit Krakow for that.
>From the moment I arrived the people were extremely friendly

Half of my team at work is based out of Poland. So far - they've all been great to work with. Not sure how that translates but my impression of Polish people is pretty positive.
I'm Polish, and those who think the country is "racist" are usually very ignorant about other cultures and ironically make assumptions about another country's people and culture based of their race or religion. 

My example is anecdotal, but others have agreed with me that people (usually English-speaking westerners) think Poland is racist simply because of the amount of Catholism in the country and how homogeneous it is with very white people. We are not strangers to racism and/or prejudice, especially since a lot majority of Poles grew up with communism.

Seeing a person with a darker complextion is quite rare, but it's something we find very endearing to see because of that fact! It's amazing you enjoyed your time in Kraków and we'll always welcome you back!
I enjoyed Poland for the most part but it was definitely the place I felt the most unease. Like 95% of people were nice, but I had the most aggressive propositions there. Men getting into my personal space, telling me they’ve “never tried chocolate” and asking me “how much for a night”. Literally never been assumed to be a prostitute anywhere else, but apparently I was giving off prostitute vibes in Poland. Obviously everywhere has its bad eggs but there seemed to be more of them in Poland. This was compared to experience in another EE country Croatia, however in Croatia i was there for a festival that quite a few other black people were visiting so maybe I wasn’t such an enigma. Overall I’d say I’m not in a hurry to return to Poland, but it was a good trip
I'm glad you liked it, but I am a little bit pissed off every time I hear about people coming from places with much more crime and violence be worried about "safety" in my country.
Im glad you had a good trip, now i want to go, thanks for your report
I'm European and I find Polish people rude, not smiling, inefficient. I also come from eastern Europe so I know this since my childhood. It's because of the soviet occuoatiib, they legacy lives until this day.
Cars are actually required to stop before pedestrians so they weren't just being nice in this case
The World needs more people like you.
I hope this teaches us all to ignore unsupported claims about racism anywhere.
People in bigger cities won’t stare but if you’d go to some smaller town/village you’d definitely get some looks
I was stationed in Poland for nearly a year and didn’t have 1 bad experience. I traveled around Europe and felt 100% comfortable. I did have friends who were drugged at a strip club though. I guess that was there karma for breaking curfew lol. Don’t take the welcome shots! 😂
Nice to hear. I went to Krakow about 6 months ago and enjoyed it. I also went to Warsaw. Different places. I am an American of Polish descent and white. Except for the cab drivers, I liked the people. The Uber drivers were fine.
If you missed the pinball museum, just another reason to go back. I've been to several, but Krakow's is my favorite in the world!
Do a trip report of LSD next
Im going there end of april nd i cannot wait!!!
Thank you I moving there for 2 years in two weeks!
U went to tourist hotspots. Krakow (the part u went to I assume the main square and surrounding areas) is overrun by tourists and Poles there are used to it. If u went to some surorundkng village or city (not oswiecim) then u might’ve faced some weird looks or discrimination. Nonetheless I’m glad U had a good trip
Yup my grandparents and 6 month old baby aunt are named in the books of the aushwitz museum
I'm outraged that some people, by virtue of their skin colour, have to even think about whether they'll be welcome somewhere. 

I see you're a winter tourist. I tend to travel in early spring and am going to Scandinavia in March. I'm a bit nervous about how cold the weather will be as, coming from Australia, I'm not very experienced navigating ice and snow. 

You've certainly roused my interest in Poland. I haven't visited Eastern Eupope with the exception of the Czech Republic, which was wondrous to me.
I wonder where is this stereotype of Poland being racist even comes from? Similar accounts to yours appear in r/Poland every now and then where black people who visited Poland are amazed by how lovely time they had there and how they didn’t experience any racism (which they expected).

Like Poland was not a colonial power involved in slavery or mistreatment of colored people, there weren’t any racial scandals or major incidents. Black people generally fare very well in Poland - there are very few of them but still.

So I’m just wondering why people have this view of Poland as some racist hotspot.

Being on the topic of travel there is this YouTube channel ran by black dude who travels around Poland. What makes his channel interesting is that he goes to totally random places where there aren’t any tourists.

Here’s Andre Traveller
https://youtu.be/S_G8sdhhqbo?si=n3OAJoj1osCopgzh
>I actually get more states being black from kids in Latin America than I did in Poland

I found this hard to believe unless you're talking about Argentina, Chile, Paraguay or Uruguay. I am Black Latino who has traveled around Latin America.

I'm happy you had a positive experience in Poland.
"Cars will even stop in the middle of a green light to let me and other pedestrians cross."

Are you sure you were in Poland?! Because I feel like every time I am crossing the road in PL I have to evade death.
Worry about racism in your own backyard first…
Careful sprinkling rainbows and unicorns, because as a fellow AA, I’ve almost got jumped during 2 of my visits there, one recently. 

I’m fucking stoked you had a good time and I hope we can have more experience like yours, but you’re going to get somebody fucked up because they’re going to remember that “danger is overblown” and, potentially, let their guard down. 

I’m not coming at you, but I been to Poland a few times, for weddings, to see my partners friends and to drink… most were uneventful, but 2 visits were very scary and extremely dangerous. 

My saving grace was that I’m, admittedly, in great shape and can run. 

To folks reading this beautiful anecdote, don’t let your guard down. Get caught lacking or innocently talking to a polish woman over coffee and some burly troglodyte may end up chasing you to a police station, which has happened to me twice. 

Be safe out there, shit ain’t as sweet as this post is showing you. 

Gorgeous country, stunning. I loved that part, but the dudes, nah man lol.
Lol had the total opposite with Poland and not much diversity haha
Yeah the stereotype is that poles are racist but from my experience there are more xenophobes than racists. Still, I don't think that's common and it's socially unacceptable to be rude in public. So even if there was somebody who didn't want to be anywhere near you, they would not show it
You don’t understand polish key point. 
[deleted]
oh for god sake dont ruin Poland too!
“Unlike most of Europe you don’t see trash in front of restaurants” do tell, where exactly in Europe have you been?
I am glad you had fun.. But based on your post looks like you are younger than a Gen Z  🤣 💙
Aiaiai us Americans in Europe. Don't get me wrong but you are just naive as f...k. Polish people,as most East European, don't like colored or Jewish people. Even if they treat you well, they don't like you. It's just a fact.
[removed]
>Cars will even stop in the middle of a green light to let me and other pedestrians cross. Honestly the sweetest people that I’ve encountered Europe.

It's against the law. By doing that he showed how big of a dumbass he is. There are red and green lights for a reason and if someone don't understand it then he should go back to driving school
Mixed race guy here. Went to Gdansk in Poland in 2016. It redefined my views on how racist people could be. Could not have even imagined experiencing such a situation in Europe prior to that. I imagine the bigger cities are better but i’d definitely advise caution to, at the very least, Gdansk.
Racism of polish people usually ends at saying the n-word in jokes (yes, this is polish humor) while being on their own lol. In the streets 99.9% of the times you won't expierience anything negative, especially in bigger cities.
Yes I highly recommend it, as I said I I actually went to an African owners babershop/hair salon https://www.ebonybarbering.com

They actually have quite a few black owned establishments but yeah I think you’d like it if you like Europe in general. Definitely less racist than Malta or Spain or Italy.
To give an opposite perspective though, I went to krakow for a few days last year and was discriminated against to the point where I couldn’t even get served a drink in several bars or clubs, and had to ask a white patron to order for me, so YMMV.
[deleted]
Don’t. It’s very racist.
It’s soo underrated I saw a YouTube video where this guy talks about the biggest shocks of Poland and the biggest one is that hardly any tourists go there. This guy also talked about it https://youtu.be/iSXAzEGU8xc?si=6OqNPax70jV3trok

Hopefully more people can start appreciating Krakow!
Yes I absolutely loved it and will definitely return!
What the….. I wonder if he just had behavioral issues or if it was racial
Lmao that may be true but they are at least very friendly to tourists 🤷🏽‍♂️
I had a Polish friend say the same 🤣 that they hate everyone regardless
[removed]
Yeah that makes sense because the barbershop that I went to in Krakow was black owned. They actually have a few black owned businesses there so I assume they get wealthy African immigrants. My barber was from Ghana and spoke perfect English.
Generally people in Poland seeing a black person assume  one is there legally 

General outlook on refugees issues quite changed since war in Ukraine begun and since just before it Belorussian dictator was trying to mass smuggle african and middle-eastrn people to Poland illegaly (for money ofc). A lot of people realised the problem lies somewhere differend
Sounds like podlasie
I understand completely. I got stares and comments in Rome, worst treatment I’ve had in Europe was definitely in Malta. Haven’t been to Greece. It’s odd that the European countries with the tannest people have the nerve to be the most racist.
>I just don’t think Black western travelers think if Poland as an option.

This is it. I live in Europe so it's fairly easy to visit places like London, Barcelona or Rome. A couple of years ago I wanted to start seeing other parts of Europe (I'm also more intrested in observing people and their daily life than beautiful surroundings). So I went to countries like Serbia, Latvia, Russia, Georgia, Ukraine etc. All these so called racist countries (I'm black). I had nothing but good experiences and tried to convince my friends to join.

But in their mind it's; I can only spend my money once, why would I risk going to Russia if I can enjoy Ibiza?
I very rarely see black people where I live in Poland and always try not to stare so they don't feel uncomfortable (I do stare at other Poles with no shame haha) but sometimes it's hard, especially if it's a woman with a cool hairstyle. Saw a black lady in a shopping mall a few months ago, she had box braids reaching her butt and I couldn't help peeking at her while she was shopping.
Well I actually read on Reddit that they stare at everyone, not only tourists or just black peoples. But I didn’t notice anyone staring at anyone.
Yea, that's bullshit, maybe a glance every 50 people you cross but definitely not staring
This applies for pretty much everywhere in the world though.
I'd say we never had a specific racism issue. During 90's and early 20's Poland was not the safest place for anyone, including polish people as well. We had unofficial no go zones in probably every town, some thugs were able to attack you only because you passed their neighborhood. You've been asked about supporting team and if the answer was wrong, you could've been beaten up etc. It's not like only people with different skin color were attacked. For hooligans it was just one of thousand reasons to attack you, sometimes just verbally and sometimes much worse.
I’m glad to hear that, I went to a really fancy restaurant in Old Town called Szara Gęś and there was a gay couple beside me with their son and no one said anything or gave them any looks.
„Who knew”? r/shitamericanssay
Yes definitely and before I went I actually saw an African guy talk about how great Albania is https://youtu.be/dQHtfqNgvnc?si=AlOv9oQXTZlXawmx
So I’ll be adding that to my list.

As far as what I was told a lot of people told me that it was going to be racist there. I mainly talked with some of my Arab friends who travel a lot and also I saw some threads on lipstickalley (a very popular African American gossip forum with a popular travel section)
People basically told me to avoid Eastern Europe altogether because they aren’t friendly towards black people. I also saw some videos of Asians in Warsaw and one guy was attacked https://youtube.com/shorts/BRF3hi_q0-o?si=I1uXd9HN3Plz84Jk

It’s crazy because Curitiba is my favorite city in Brazil and they have a huge polish population and many people including Brazilians told me how racist it was… based on me telling you it’s my favorite city in Brazil I guess you can tell that I didn’t experience any racism there.

A lot of people seem to have an idea that anything polish is racist, so far that hasn’t been my experience at all.
I just visited Kraków and wasn't a huge fan, but I do recommend it for a day or two if you're in the area. It's great for food as everything's so cheap.

I will agree it's extremely clean in the centre but outside of the centre it's quite rundown and graffitied.
It’s delicious very affordable and always in very large portions!
Kraków has a reputation for hooligans. I've lived in Poznań for the past 4 years, sometimes passing near Bułgarska and I only ran into them once - and it was just some dudes in scarves asking if I had a lighter

Apparently this changed a lot as I have some friends who grew up in Poznań and it apparently was way less safe even just 10 years ago
I’d say that sounds significant.

But glad to hear overall positive experiences for us.
AA - alcoholics anonymous  - was first thing that came to my mind and I couldn't understand why it's relevant to this topic. From country to country abbreviations can have very different meanings.
Awful in the winter, manageable in other times of years.
It is very bad. At least for European standards. But Kraków is so breathtaking that you won't notice :)
As a Kraków citizen I don't agree about the jaywalking, the societal norms actually encourage you to wait for a green (pedestrian) light at a street crossing even when there's no cars to be seen nearby - and it's fun to spot foreigners and individualists when there's 20 people waiting and 2 crossing :p
I’m sure you’ll have a great time. The people are very friendly. I’d also suggest maybe some Viator or Airbnb experiences if you are going alone.
Yes but I wasn’t able to see it, but I’ve heard it’s in Krakow.
Did I say I was worried about safety?
Did they pick you? If you’re Eastern European yourself it’s a little silly to complain about that
Thank you. I have the Polish people to thank.
Agree
You’ll love it there!
Weird look maybe, discrimination no.
Wow, I’m glad they kept the concentration camp open for visitors because I think it’s a part of history that we should never forget and it’s even more heartbreaking that this wasn’t even that long ago. The tour guide told us that they actually opened to museum a few years after WWII ended. Seeing the photos of the victims once they arrived was heartbreaking as well as in I think building 7 which is where they have the hair of those who were brought to Auschwitz (they shaved everyone’s hair once they arrived). Me and most of the guests were freezing and the fact that they told us that most of the Jewish people weren’t allowed to wear clothes and only use the bathroom twice a day is unthinkable. I’m glad your family is being remembered and sorry they had to go through that.
I grew up my entire life not realizing that our family names were in the Auschwitz book until two years ago. What a mindf\*ck.
I met some Australians on my Auschwitz tour and we were talking about how cold it was. You’ll definitely want to layer up and gloves, boots and something that will cover your ears and I would even suggest a face mask if you can. That wind was brutal, it snowed for three days straight but the wind was the worst part.
Poland is not in eastern Europe, nor is Czech Republic.
> I'm outraged that some people, by virtue of their skin colour, have to even think about whether they'll be welcome somewhere. 

That says more about the society they come from rather than the place they intend to visit.
> Black people generally fare very well in Poland - there are very few of them but still.

As you pointed out, Poland did not import slaves so black residents in the country are either immigrants or descended from them. 

And not to make a too fine point of it, in past 250 years or so Poland was first an occupied state treated like a colony by its neighbors, had the eastern fronts of two world wars roll through it, was largely isolated from the Western society as a satellite state subservient to the Soviets, then had its economy nearly crash after regaining independence in 1989 - all in all, the sort of country people ran away from rather than sought to immigrate to. That has only been changing in past twenty years or so since after it joined EU
As Poland is not very diverse I guess that people from more diverse countries, like USA assume that the "obvious" reason is racism. Not lack of colonization in the past or being less attractive country to migrate to than Western European countries just the border away.
Because there are incidents like everywhere, but they're highly publicized.
To add to this, there was one case when Polish soldiers were supposed to be fighting for a colonial powers and they defected to the rebels instead—the Haitian revolution.
Yeah I spoke about how they also have that stereotype about people in Curitiba in Brazil which is mostly Brazilians of Polish ancestry. Oddly it’s my favorite city in Brazil I experienced zero racism there. Although I think the stereotype stems from the fact that apparently the polish that emigrated there were affiliated with the nazis during WWII
That was my experience in Argentina, Chile, Paraguay, Uruguay, in addition I was stared at and actually called the N word in both Mexico and specifically in the Ipanema area of Rio.
Did you just write you are happy he had a bad experience in Poland? Lol
Some people in this thread said it’s apparently the law that they have to stop. Everyone stopped for me.
Yeah I didn’t see much diversity although there are black owned businesses there. What was your experience there?
That's the most murican thing I read in a long time.
The only photo I’ve ever posted on Reddit is of my skincare collection. If your going to come in with false accusations provide evidence to back up your claims.
I’m a millennial but I have clearly abandoned spell check lol
I was asked out by three different women while in Krakow. Everyone I met there has messaged me since I left including tour guides. Your post comes across as insecure.
OP did not ask a question. Axe?

OP did not mention Germany.

It feels like you are trying to make some sort of a judgement statement here but just came off as an incoherent mess instead.
😲😲 what happened?
What people say behind closed doors isn’t my business. As long as they are respectful to me in person. That’s all I care about.
Because those countries have a lot of migrants of which some make a bad rep for all, including the normal people. Poland you don’t have any migrants so a lot of folks haven’t had a negative experience to think anything
Curious to hear what racism you encountered whilst in Malta? And of course, I'm really sorry to read that you did!
Are you certain it was not you looking underage? Because I believe you could meet some asshole bartender once, but several in different locations? It's really hard to believe.
Yes totally. There’s a lot of factors that could affect my experience. Thank you for sharing your story.
How did that go? I'm honestly curious.
Like any place your persona/vibe has influence in that... 

Go to France with a bad face and try the same, your vibe no matter the race means a lot anywhere in the world.
Absolutely not denying your experience, you saw what you saw. As a young looking woman that tends to happen pretty often to me though, just because i look potentially underage and i’m not as confident and loud as some others.
I was never racist towards polish people.
proof? define racist? is it racist if polish people speak to you in English, assuming you cant speak Polish?
[deleted]
Tbh as a Kraków resident I can say - there are people living here that have enough of tourists. There are statements that city politicians favor tourists and city is more for them compared to people living here. The number of tourists is higher every year so I'm not really sure from where you got info we have hardly any tourists.

Kraków is destination for Brits to come to party just before wedding. This is also destination for Poles to go as it's former capital so kids "should" see the dragon and castle. 

I have checked and just during vacations in 2022 we had 350k tourists in a city that has 800k people if I'm not mistaken.

Before covid even at 1 AM it could be so crowdy near main square that it was difficult to cross the street.

There were times when even I couldn't order a drink at bar because it was so crowdy. The was comment that people were feeling discriminated because if it. No it's just the way it is. In some restaurants I guess due to high inflation you have 2 waiters inrtead of 3 like it was before covid. They don't come anymore to ask 'everything is good etc'. This is my feeling as white polish guy that visited USA and can feel difference. 

From one aspect it's good that we have tourists because of money that is left in the city from other traffic jams are huge, public transport can be a mess and restaurants are crowdy.

That is my 2c on the topic.
I have to disagree. Krakow is already appreciated enough within Europe in terms of numbers of tourists, at least during the warm months. For the winter I’d agree with you, local businesses could use some more visits. But during the summer the level of tourism is already ok, no need to overrun the city like it has sadly happened to more popular places.
I lived there for 3-4 years and it was definitely a very touristic destination, at least when the weather is nice. You’re insane for going during the winter! (Although the cold and snow does give the city some incredible charm)
Kids be dumb sometimes. When they're that age they love doing random shit, like pretending they're a dinosaurs.
Kids aren't racist. If not taught to be.
He probably hasn’t seen many black people before. Good that his mother reacted immediately though, hopefully also explained why it was wrong.
He might have seen person of colour for the first time in his life, probably simply shocked
"we hate everybody" means just that if someone is being rude to you it isn't because of your skin color or anything else but is strictly because they have problem with you as a person, for example you're rude to someone.

If you have neutral behavior everyone will be neutral or friendly to you

If you think everyone is looking at you because of your skin color you might be correct but that's out of curiosity. Not everyday we see people with very dark skin
We hate ourselves the most lol
You mean her friend? Like normal. She didn’t feel out-of-place there or anything.
I go to an African salon in Warsaw because I have 3c hair and Poland is Straighthairland. It's always busy with half black people, half white people, and it is not a cheap place. There are plenty of budget barbers and hairdressers, but this is a high class stablishment: we pay for a premium service and receive that. And it is not the only African salon in Warsaw. I used to go to a different one but my hairdresser moved to another EU country where she makes much more money, and since I didn't know the people left at that salon I decided to try the one I go to now because it was closer to home.
>My barber was from Ghana and spoke perfect English.

Not to take away from his proficiency at learning foreign languages, but that might be because English is the official language of Ghana.
If people in Poland stare at you it's just because we stare at everything, in particular at different things or noticeable people. It's not mean, it's just stuff we instinctively do. Still it's more noticeable during warm weather.
>worst treatment I’ve had in Europe was definitely in Malta

Malta was on my list. However, when I saw how they treat Black people I said no!

>Haven’t been to Greece

Greece is such a mixed bag with Black travelers. Some people love it and some people hate it. It's not like Italy where most Black travelers report bad experiences.
Going to be honest with a very likely reason why, even though it's not something people like to hear on Reddit.

Poland is a very welcoming and safe country because, at least partially, they haven't bent to the wokeness of the West. They have extremely strict policies when it comes to who is allowed to immigrate there. Someone from their parliament has said as much. It also helps they only have sea to their north. 

Compare that to the likes of Italy, Malta and Greece who receive tens of thousands of illegal immigrants every year. You can't spend a day in Rome without a scam being tried on you by someone who is Northern African. There are only so many times you can experience that before it starts to rub off on you and you treat everyone who has a similar skin tone badly. It's not right but I can understand it.

I don't know if you've been on this sub much but I've read countless stories over the years where a black American isn't treated very well until they open their mouth. I'm generalising but in Europe, that's because you're American, that's it, being black is as relevant as the colour of your shoes. There are assholes everywhere and some countries are 100% worse than others but I still think it's true to say.

Again generalising but racism doesn't usually describe what happens in most of Europe, it's usually way more complicated than that and Americans largely struggle to understand it. The closest word is probably xenophobia but even that isn't correct as it's more 'hatred' of destructive culture rather than any culture but their own. See for example Romani people. Americans on Reddit will screech all day that Europeans are racist for hating them. A large percentage of Europeans do indeed hate them but it is not because of their race, its because of their culture.

So yea, it's complicated.
The poorer the place is the more racist it is. This applies almost everywhere.
It’s really a crapshoot. I have a few biracial Russian friends from school and they had a *terrible* time growing up. I also had Black and brown associates who were working with Ukrainian refugees and several of them experienced some nasty racism. To be honest, if I have to spend my hard-earned money, use PTO and the possibility of racism is there? Might as well go to a beach 🤷🏽‍♀️
Haha thats cute 🤭 its difficult not to stare at something you don't see very often. It would be the same for you if you went outside Europe.
That's a bit of a European thing in general. Did you use public transport? Staring often happens in places where people don't have much else to do (though now most stare at their phones obviously).
Huh, that's weird. I don't really notice any staring in Poland. I don't think that we (Poles) stare at each other too much, I'd say that most people avoid eye contact here.

Maybe what you've read were tourist experiences, they went to smaller cities and you might get a few stares there, but those are not malicious in any way 99% of the time. 

People are just surprised to see a tourist in a shithole, let alone a black person, since non-whites are very rare in small town Poland.
I got stared at like crazy in Poland, including in cities like Krakow and Warsaw.
Even public transport was a mess. My family avoided one train line as there were issues with robberies and stealing. Plus, the trains were trash

On more optimistic note, they improved and it’s way safer. Plus, some parts of Warsaw look completely different and they are lively. When in the past it was grim street from a noir film. 
Probably meant "who in USA", which is more /r/usdefaultism
Ya & what about it 💅🏽✨
> told me to avoid Eastern Europe

Just wanted to point out that Poles don't consider themselves eastern europeans and hate being called that.
Breathtaking in more ways tha one you could say *cough*
If you're the one to start walking tho, especially if it's red and no car in sight, suddenly you find 5 more people doing the same ;D
Is Viator useful for like giving me activities to do? And interesting on the Airbnb. Thank you. I was going to stay at hostel for 2 days and have a private room for the rest of the trip cause of Auschwitz :(. 

Thank you for replying
Literally the first sentence.
Yes. Thanks for your kind words. It's heartbreaking. My 3 year old mom was the sole survivor. My 32 year old grandfather lived till the death march. Grandmother and baby aunt were gassed immediately. My now 84 year old  mother died this Aug. She lived to see 30 great grandchildren. That's because one life was saved.
Thanks for the advice. I'll stock up.
Yeah sounds plausible. 

Also I guess that maybe it’s because the Hollywood wasn’t exactly the kindest to the image of the polish people.
Here is the whole story if anyone is interested

https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Polish_Haitians
Affiliated with Nazis?! That’s a first time I hear about that. That’s a new one. What kind of affiliation? Like Volksdautche?

I know mass emigration to Brazil from Poland happened at the Endo of 19th and beginning of the 20th century way before WW2.
idk about Brazillians, but I wonder if that stereotype might have to do with Polish-Americans

I only ever interact with them online, but from what I've seen those who self describe themselves as such are often:
- more conservative than average American
- more conservative than average Polish person born in Poland
- some are at least slightly racist

I wouldn't be surprised if that also adds to the visiting fear factor, as average US citizen will probably interact more with Polish-Americans than someone born in Poland, hence extending this view over to the country itself
when you say the n-word, are you talking about *negro*? Because in Spanish *negro* just means Black and it's not inherently offensive. Mexico does have problem with racism, but screaming racial insults openly against someone is not something that Mexican society would seem positively.

Brazil is weird. I think it's more racist than the US, by far, even if my experiences in Brazil (3 times) were fantastic.

>That was my experience in Argentina, Chile, Paraguay, Uruguay

Uruguay is the only country out of 19 visited that I never want to go back. I was stared at as if I were an alien. Horrible.

Argentina has a bad reputation, but I loved it. Paraguay was also very nice.

I haven't been to Chile, but today they are known as the most racist and xenophobic country in Latin America.
edited, English is my third language.
It was ok honestly. Friendliest in that region by far serbia. Poland wasn't the best tbh. But I went there to volunteer with the refugees from the war so ye. I do wish my experience was better ofcourse but whatever went to help
Why you say that bro
Thank you 22Diamondback! This guy clearly has some issues and obviously didn’t even read my post.
[removed]
Most of immigrants in Poland are actually students or high skilled. There's one big difference.
[deleted]
Partially true. Most african migrants tend to want to get further west and dont want to stay in poland, belarus push many across their border. There is a big polish army presence around Białowieża and the border near there to try to stop this movement through the large areas of forest by these border areas. Im sure thr OP would have less friendly receotion in those small eastern towns as they would likely imagine any person of colour to be one of these aforementioned migrants.
(I met a black french girl who had been really harrassed and was shook up in one such town) 
Many locals i spoke to had very bad opinions about belarus and the many migrants that are being pushed across.
My mother and I were called names, we were stared at and in one restaurant the couple behind us kept making monkey sounds and the guy was trying to mock my mothers gestures and the way she talks. The whole thing was horrible. We haven’t returned since. Everyone was rude form the moment we arrived and we stayed for a week in a timeshare.
Same thoughts here, especially given my BIPOC friends' and wife's experiences in Krakow. I'm white and I've also had difficulties in getting drinks at a few bars and clubs in Krakow/Europe because I wasn't pushy enough to get the bartender's experience, as I'm used to the American treatment where waiters/waitresses are overly attentive. But I also don't want to discredit this person's experience if it truly was down to racism because that definitely isn't okay.
Underage on Poland is like 12 or so fyi. As in Europe in general
[removed]
Yeah racism isn’t real he just had a bad vibe!
I was being sarcastic.
I was actually thinking about Zakopane based on what I heard from some of the locals in Krakow, but then I saw some others say that it’s a tourist trap and they charge you for everything. Or do you think most items are a fair price like in Krakow?
I understand I just wish more people appreciated it. Also I wish more Americans would go. Apparently it’s not a secret in Europe but outside of Europe you don’t hear many people talk about Poland I just wish people understood the beauty of the country and the people and maybe invest in Poland.
But do we really grow out of it? I'm 25 yo and still howl and bark every time I see my neighbours Malamute. I like to do this contest who can howl longer - me or him. My neighbour probably thinks I'm mentally ill.
They can act weird towards people of other races though. I watch a lot of travel vlogs from all over the world and have seen some from Africa where a small girl ran away crying and screaming after seeing a white dude (the vlogger) in her small village. She thought he is a demon as the adults explained. Who knows where that Polish boy got the idea to growl at a black person from.
Yes… I know. The trouble is, they are often taught to be racist by adults who don’t see any issue with what they are doing
I don't think we Poles stare bluntly at other people, You can probably get a quick glance but that's it. At least I was raised in this manner "don't look at him, it's rude" and now 25 years later I'm afraid of any eye contact.
No No Russians first
No, im talking about your wife’s boyfriend
Yeah the one that I went to might be considered high class too, my barber was late so he took me right to his chair but some people on Google said that they were offered vodka when they arrived lol So I assume that it’s considered high class. I paid the equivalent of $20 USD for a haircut and a shave which would be at least $45 in Miami.
Didn’t know that lol thanks
Yeah Malta was horrible and shortly before I had arrive they had a scandal where there military killed an African immigrant in a hate crime. https://www.infomigrants.net/en/post/16969/maltese-soldiers-charged-with-migrant-murder
I believe they ended up getting away with it to!
Sorry but this is mostly bullshit. First of all not all Poland is safe and welcoming. There are super friendly places and then there are other places. For example Poland is the only place so far I have been screamed at for talking a foreign language on the street (funnily I'm actually a native so I gave the guy an earful). There are huge issues with women's rights and the safety of lgbtq people. There are lots of people, especially older ones, who are deeply racist and right-wing and justify it with nationalistic pathos or super old-fashioned Catholicism. They are super prejudiced against people that look different, which makes the lives of polish people that are POC hard. I'm thankful for what you call "wokeness", because it's finally teaching people that black polish people are polish, and that being gay isn't a sin.
This entire diatribe was xenophobic and racist. I’m African, one of my parents was born and raised in a country in Africa. And Northern Africans generally don’t even *look* like Western Africans, where most western Black people originate. 

I am so sick of the “THIS IS WOKE” brigade. I hate that the use of that word grew outside of Black American vernacular.
Its not even about being "woke", Poland through history was always more tolerant than other states.
Only later Russian and Prussian indoctrination changed it, then communism, but now they're free again so (mostly younger) people are pretty positive about average black guy visiting. People generally dont like poor immigrants.(Obviously if some politician decides to create his fear campaign it may provoke some bad behavior from his "fans")
I recently saw a tik-tok about a black American in Italy who was refused access to the lift until he said he was a US citizen by the hostess girl. So it was not so much about his skin colour or race as it was about his background. It all came down to culture. Things are indeed complicated. What if illegal Sub-Saharan African immigrants cause problems in the community? Is she not allowed to be afraid of being alone in the lift with a man who resembles troublemakers she has met in the past? Is she not allowed to take precautions to ensure her own safety? We know that not every immigrant is a criminal, but should we expect her to put her health at risk based on that assumption?
Wow, you couldn’t be more wrong.
I will be the last one to defend Russia, but regarding racism, Ukraine and Russia are not that different, at least Russia openly admits it's a racist state.

>To be honest, if I have to spend my hard-earned money, use PTO and the possibility of racism is there? Might as well go to a beach 🤷🏽‍♀️

There are two positions in the black travel community, both of them valid and with pros and cons.

The first one is the one you mention, that Black travelers shouldn't go to overtly racist places to spend their hard-earned money.

The second one is that Black travelers need to be seen and we need to visit these places.
Or visit black countries. Go to Africa or the Caribbean
I love what you black ladies do with your hair. I've actually gotten box braids myself once, I know it's frowned upon when white women get them, but in my defense I was 14 and it was when Alicia Keys got big with her song Fallin'. I thought she is the most beautiful girl in the world, I was obsessed with her and the song and I just wanted to look like her. Not a pleasant experience haha it took 7 hours to get them done and my scalp hurt, it was difficult to sleep for me. I removed the braids pretty fast (which my mom was angry about because they were very expensive). Still love the song though :)
I did an Airbnb experience and the host took me on the tram (not sure what it’s called) from Old town to Kazimierz, it was only two stops lol but not one person stared at me.
But what else should people do in public transport? Staring is the only option lol
In smaller towns people tend to stare even if you have a license plates from different part of the Poland. The live in small town is boring, hence people are looking for something unusual.
Maybe you're pretty :)
Yeah, you are right.
That depends on a person, I definitely consider myself as a Polish guy eastern european
You’re welcome and yes on Viator they have a list of activities and you will have the ability to narrow your search by interests.
I said I was scared to go there based on what I heard about racism. Never said anything about safety.
Polish American here, I didn't grow up in the region where they're commonly found (Midwest) so I can't speak much to them, but I do know that the Polish Americans that do vote in Polish elections vote overwhelmingly for PiS, which might say something.
I’m fluent in Spanish and you can look at some of my old posts from my account. I have talked about on Reddit how I lived in Bogota for a few years so I know the difference between negro and the racial slur. And IMO it’s a little nieve especially with social media to assume that people outside the USA don’t know what the n word is as a racial slur especially when you can see people saying it as slang and as an insult on social media.
I agree, no one in Mexico even knows what the N word is. Negro just means black (as in the color).. It’s not meant to be offensive, just a way to describe someone. Same goes for white, brown, blonde.. 

I’m Mexican, go there all the time.. I’ve never heard a Mexican say the N word.
I think associating lack of diversity with racism comes across as a bit American, sorry to hear you had a bad experiance though
People never fail to surprise me with how fast they choose to turn hateful. There was literally nothing provocative in your report. A lot of trip reports on here mention prior apprehensions that they may have about a place they are traveling too. You mentioned one that you had and that it turned out untrue. It wasn’t even a large part of your trip report.
There are no questions in my post about Germany or Poland. I gave a trip report complimenting Poland. You are clearly a racist troll starting issues. Go touch some grass sir! “naw mean”
Yeah, before I went to university I saw a black person here maybe three times in my life for a combined time of like a minute, but now I see a group of them pretty much weekly going from the uni area to a hospital they study at. The closer you are to the uni, the higher the frequency. Don't think I've heard about anybody having negative experiences yet.
I was talking about the typical migrants (illegal) from all the African nations showing up to Malta, Italy, Spain, etc, not some Ukrainians or Albanians
Living in Kraków, there's a lot of immigrants from India and South Asia in general, and in addition to that, African immigrants- but they're usually students, or after studies in Poland so it's a different group than African immigrants in France
That is really not true of Northern Europe.
Gaslight much?
ok sorry
[removed]
[deleted]
Unfortunately much of it is a tourist trap and the main street lost its charm due to this, but the wooden cottages you stay in are very charming and the nature around it is 100% worth it, you can even reach some of the trecks directly from the village on foot or bus.
I loved Krakow, went for the hiking in the Tatras.  I found it to be quite affodable, though it was touristy.

On the other side of the range is Poprad in Slovakia, also wonderful but a bit touristy!

Check out, Moski Oko, the eye of the ocean!  A mountain lake outside Krakow that is just superb!
Zakopane is very crowded and the rip your money off. Otherwise it looks good.
Consider Szczyrk as an alternative. It's a smaller town further out west, inhabited by a different sub-group of the Góral culture ( [see this map for a broad guide](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Podhale#/media/File:Gorals_map.png) ).
It’s a skii resort town so prices are a little higher than other places but compared to a skii resort in the US for example it’s dirt cheap. I was just there and it’s one of my favorite places in the world. Stayed in Good Bye Lenin hostel which is a cozy log cabin in the woods away from the center and it’s become my second favorite hostel ever!!! Went on probably my second favorite hike ever too, I could not recommend Zakopane enough
It's pretty but it's very much a tourist trap, it's crowded and górals are greedy. But tbh it wouldn't be that expensive for you as an American
Probably a joke, giving his age.
Define "often". I live 45 years and i haven't seen a single case of such behavior.
I agree i should use word glancing not looking. Thanks for correction
We hate ourselves the most. Business before pleasure.
You forgot about Germans. We always have to be better than Germans.
Don’t know what you’re talking about then
They give drinks at barbers here, included in the price! My husband gets nice whiskey and he pays around $20 for a full beard shaping.

My hairdressers don't give booze but last time I had to wait a bit and they insisted on taking 50zl out of my bill for the wait although I said no. It really is a premium service. I have seen them also giving silk do-rags as a Christmas gift for guys who were getting cornrows done, for maintenance!
Least obvious soy milk consumer
Its all true, and even conservative people change and are being more tolerant. Im living in Southern Lesser Poland and I can see that most people here are more tolerant and there's now open discussion about woman and minorities rights. I guess its getting better.
*which makes the lives of polish people who are POC hard*  
That is odd because, according to the "Being Black in the EU" report, the opposite is true. For black people, Poland is one of the best places to live in the EU right now.
>because it's finally teaching people that black polish people are polish, and that being gay isn't a sin.

Maybe you could teach your enlightened ass that being homosexual was never punished in Poland, Poland was one of the first states that granted women voting rights, had full religious freedom since middle ages, fuck even had pseudo democracy while rest of europe was chasing after witches, jews and slaves.
And they don’t know how to use the word correctly. Everything they don’t agree with is “woke”.
>Only later Russian and Prussian indoctrination changed it, then communism

This. People overlook this significant portion of Poland's history and immediately label all Poles as intolerant, despite the fact that it was possibly the most diverse kingdom/commonwealth in Europe. My grandmother's hometown in southeast Poland consisted of various groups of Jews (Ashkenazi, Sephardi, etc.), Armenians, Greeks, Italians, Turks, etc. as far into the 1930s.
I've also seen that tik-tok (on Reddit) and some people in the comments wrote that they have seen the same exact story told by another black guy. I wonder if it's even a real story or a rage bait.
Can't say for other parts of the world but this is definitely true accross the USA and latin america.

I assume is the same in Europe, I've read that the more racist countries are the poorer ones like the balkans.
With all due respect, I’ll never agree with the second position—it’s 2024, the internet exists, I don’t need to be subject to overt racism in order for someone to know what a Black person looks like. We don’t “need” to be seen anywhere and I’m not a walking tool to teach people tolerance.
Me, and every Black person I know, regularly visits the Caribbean or a country on the African continent. I recently spent time in South Africa and Barbados. My parents just came back from Jamaica. All of my friends and I went to Ghana twice in the past five years.
To be honest, I think everyone should be allowed to do whatever they want with their hair (regardless of skin colour) I saw a Polish woman in my hairdressers getting box braids and it looked really cute 🤣 ive never had braids before because its too expensive like you said... but I'm planning to try them next month.
Yeah, that's also true. Maybe aside from newer cars driving with Warsawian plates, because that usually means that you're leasing your car.

I'm from a small town and we saw a Cadillac driving with American plates, from Arizona I think. Everyone talked about it for a day or two.
Haha. But no, I was with a group and we got stares and nasty looks and sometimes worse, even though we weren’t poorly behaved.
Why is that?

Poland shares much more with Germany than Russia when it comes to culture or history.
Thank you so much!
>And IMO it’s a little nieve especially with social media to assume that people outside the USA don’t know what the n word is as a racial slur especially when you can see people saying it as slang and as an insult on social media.

It's a racial slurs, but rappers keep using that word in their songs, same songs our uneducated youth listen to thinking the n-word is not a big deal because their favorite rappers use it.

I would never say Latin America doesn't have racism problems, especially in countries like Chile and El Salvador, but saying Poland is less racist than us is a stretch.

Again, I'm happy that you had a positive experience, but Poland has a reputation for a reason.
Mexico is still the country I've been to the most (5 times). I have been able to experience different parts of Mexico. I've been to the North (Nuevo León), I've been to Central Mexico (Puebla, CDMX and Estado de México) and to the Southeast (Yucatan and Quintana Roo). So many different cultures in one country, and the food 🤤

I want to visit Guadalajara some time, maybe for the next World Cup since I don't have a US visa.
>Negro just means black (as in the color).. It’s not meant to be offensive, just a way to describe someone.

But you're also assuming that the person who is using the term is using it in a benevolent manner. I've heard it used and it was *not* meant to solely describe someone, but to put them down. The remnants from the caste system complicates that, unfortunately.
Racism cause of the way I was treated in that region. Not cause of lack of diversity. When you're told being a mix is disgusting ye sorry that's crazy to me
Well you stated you had the assumption of racism and after you went you was proven wrong weren't you. Ain't nobody racist just pointing out basic facts. Regardless of race if you look noticeably different from the majority of the people you can/will get treated different both in good/bad ways. Ya heard me.
Not sure why you’re getting downvoted
why do migrants from Africa automatically have to be illegal? the ones in Poland tend to be students, so not illegal
I’ll definitely add those to my list when I return!
Main market square in Kraków is one of the most overpriced places in the area, not just Kraków alone xD So is Old Town and Jewish District. Those are touritst places where you pay extra for being in the tourist place. Zakopane is the same. Those two are THE tourist destination in pretty much whole southern Poland.

Now, they are overpriced compared to polish salaries, if you come from a western country on a trip, it probably won't matter much to you, nor be a big dent in your budget.
> Check out, Moski Oko, the eye of the ocean! 

Morskie Oko, translates to "Eye of the Sea" or more literally "Sea-like Eye". The "eye" part meaning a lake or a water basin ( "oko wodne" - "an eye of water" - is a somewhat obscure Polish idiom that means a water basin )
Did you climb higher from Morskie Oko to also see Czarny Staw (Black Lake)?

https://its-poland.com/attraction/black-lake-below-mount-rysy

I loved it way more than Morskie Oko, less tourists (most just made it to Morskie Oko and went back) and the hike was super enjoyable. It's not long, maybe 20-30 minutes but a bit steep.
Yeah that’s what I read online. That’s why I was cautious to go there. Although many people told me that it’s a great place to go.
“Often” was perhaps a poor use of words. But enough. I know from personal experience with racist comments and racially motivated bullying in school, as well as experiences with inappropriate comments from children that other POC have shared with me more recently. Perhaps you haven’t seen a single case of it, and you are fortunate to live in circumstances where this isn’t an issue, but that doesn’t mean it doesn’t exist.
Regarding to Russianss we have I can say pleasure and duty
That’s so nice, would you recommend Warsaw to a tourist? I’d love to try other cities in Poland next time I go to Krakow. The only things I’ve heard about Warsaw is that it’s very modern but doesn’t have the charm of Krakow.
Ah Malopolska is open and more left-leaning, and personally my favourite part, culture-wise.
I'm glad to hear that! I know that a lot of them struggle though, and stay in big cities where people are more open as compared to small towns.
I never said it was punished, I said it was, and still is, viewed as a sin by many people. There are "LGBTQ-free zones" there, or at least people trying to create them.

Poland had some good things going on but was really backward in others.
Exactly. Publicly-funded healthcare is “WOKE,” shut up, grandpa!
[deleted]
I mean, I agree with you. There are some countries that are on my "no go list" because I work hard for the money and the last thing I need during a vacation is to have a bad experience.
Marvellous 👌🏾
I'm sure you will look lovely! I agree that people should do whatever they want with their hair but I wouldn't want to wear box braids if I was visiting the US. I know some people get upset by it and I don't like upsetting people :) I don't think that black ladies in Poland care much, I've seen an instagram account of a hair salon in Poland run by a few women from Africa who were very welcoming to Polish clients. Besides box braids, cornrows, they were even offering afro perms. Don't remember the name of the place though. I thought it's very cool they were sharing their culture this way.
[deleted]
I never said Poland was less racist than all of Latin America. I just said I personally didn’t get stared at in Poland but I have been stared at in Latin America. As we discussed I’ve only been stared at in a few countries in Latin America and gotten racial slurs in two countries but I lived in Latin America (Bogota) so obviously I love it there and I can’t say Latinos are more racist than Poles. I’ve only been to one city in Poland and I just happened to have had a great time there.
Yeah sure and the reason being?
>I would never say Latin America doesn't have racism problems, especially in countries like Chile and El Salvador, but saying Poland is less racist than us is a stretch.  
>  
>Again, I'm happy that you had a positive experience, but Poland has a reputation for a reason.

You obviously don't know shit about Poland
Have you been to Poland?
Mexico’s extremely welcoming to all.. I’m glad you’ve experienced it for yourself. Next time visit Guanajuato/city! It’s beautiful there. :)
Because he used the term “migrants” while actually thinking (apparently) about illegal immigrants.
because he made it sound like immigrants from Africa, as a rule, are illegal immigrants
Ok, now you confuse me, i though we're talking about pre-school kids, like in an example above.
Warsaw is fully reconstructed. To my eye it's very beautiful, but you gotta remember that everything is "new". Of course you also gotta remember that the city was fully flattened as a result of the Warsaw Uprising. History is not pretty here; it's a heartbreaking tale of betrayal. But it's also a story of hope because modern Warsaw is a wonderful, highly technological city where people from many countries work, study and live together, and I would like to know what Hitler would think about it. There is value in the way that Hitler destroyed Warsaw for being contrarían and nowadays it is still contrarian, vibrant and alive. 

I would love to show you Warsaw if you want to know more of Poland, with maybe a 2 day to Łódź which is another vibrant place full of history and in this case I have natives who looooooove playing tourist guide and showing off both the historical and architectural features and the nightlife!
You should definitely add also Wrocław and Toruń to your Polish bucket list. When in Warsaw, the Uprising Museum, Łazienki Royal Park and Pałac Kultury i Nauki are three spots you want to put on top of your list. Let me know if more recommendations needed.
Warsaw mayor R Trzaskowski created his "pro LGBT" zone with free hotels, sponsoring fundations and other benefits, right media made a big topic of this so multiple eastern mayor's and councils declared that they won't pay for such shit or promote it in any way in their cities. Left activist B Staszewski created road sign no LGBT zone (right was talking then about immigrants in Sweden and police no go zones so it was popular phrase) and made photo session for western media. 
Everyone used this to fight their culture war. It's not backwards, or medieval in nature.
Where did I say it was the origin of the issues? You concurred with what I stated.
Today's Russia is a mix of slavic, asian and turkic people, but it doesn't matter at all, there's no such thing as a "slavic country", that's some very russian panslavic bs.

Poland and Russia come from two very different civilisations, western and eastern ones, the fact that both languages are slavic is unimportant. Both countries and nations developed in vastly different ways, you can see it in culture, language, religion, mindset and every aspect of everyday life tbh.
And because it seems to be he's hinting that refugees from Ukraine are more legitimate than refugees from Africa. Many of the black "migrants" in Italy are Somali refugees, also fleeing dangerous conditions just like Ukranians. But he's differentiating them for some reason.
Yes, I meant child to child (personal experience when I was younger) and child to adult (what others told me about more recently)
Wish I could be more happy for this guy but [https://www.reddit.com/r/poland/comments/17kscjq/comment/k79q4ca/?utm\_source=reddit&utm\_medium=web2x&context=3](https://www.reddit.com/r/poland/comments/17kscjq/comment/k79q4ca/?utm_source=reddit&utm_medium=web2x&context=3) :(
Because one side assimilates and properly functions in the new country while the other mostly skyrockets the crime rates...
Im differentiating because Op is saying they are black and experienced racism in those countries where there are a lot of black migrants (illegal) coming in: Italy, Spain , etc.   Poland doesn’t have really any of those same migrants coming in; mostly if anything just students from Africa. If there were a lot of white ukranian migrants going there (Italy , Spain, etc, where op experienced racism as a black person) it would have no relevance to op experiencing racism there as a black person.
Why are you in a travel subreddit if you're this bigoted? Look at statistics. I can't speak for Poland or Italy but in the US, both immigrants and refugees are significantly LESS likely to commit crimes. Statistically, immigrants from all countries are highly ambitious and hard working. There have been plenty of studies on this and you might have differing anecdotal experience but that's anecdotal.

Additionally, you realize how much of Europe is responsible for the refugee crisis in many parts of Africa, right? Just like the US is responsible for the refugee crisis in most parts of Latin America. So not only should refugees be welcome because of basic human compassion (and international law), but because historically (and presently) the countries they flee to are largely responsible for the horrific consequences of colonization, literally starting coups to overthrow democratically elected gov'ts (looking at you US gov't), putting the global south deeper and deeper into debt through IMF and World Bank loans that benefit corporations and screw people over, free trade agreements and other economic policies that again benefit corporations and harm workers, etc. etc. etc.
Bad hostel experience staying in an all female dorm
I’m travelling alone and staying in an all female dorm in Brussels. I specifically booked a female only dorm because I did not want to be around random men. 

One of the girls brought a random guy into the room last night and proceeded to have sex with him. I made it very clear that I could hear them but they continued. He then left in the morning.

Seriously wtf goes through people’s minds to think that bringing a random man into a female only dorm AND having sex with him while other girls are sleeping is okay?! Go get a hotel room if you’re that horny. It’s gross and inconsiderate. 

I went and complained to the reception staff who thankfully allowed me to change rooms.  But the guy and the girl who brought him in should be banned for that sort of behaviour!!
OP appears to have requested personal experiences from (women/people of color/LGBTQ+ travelers). If you are not a member of the requested demographic, please carefully consider whether your post will add value to the conversation.

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/solotravel) if you have any questions or concerns.*
This is the worst when it happens. I once had an experience where two people were having sex at 3 am in a 14 people mixed dorm on a chair that faced all our beds that did not have curtains. 

Sometimes people forget that other humans exist too.
This happens super often which is why a lot of the time I don’t even bother with all female dorms since it’s not worth the extra cost.
There’s a weird cohort of people who seem to think that since you’re staying in a dorm you’re just supposed to suck it up and accept whatever happens in the dorm. No this is not normal or ok, wtf.
As a long time hostel manager, to anyone reading that encounters this, report immediately to front desk. Our staff would have gone in there, broke that up, and kicked both out and banned them from returning. At the least, they might be able to sleep it off and be asked to leave the next morning if it's the middle of the night, but regardless, that is not acceptable behavior.
Reception staff are in the wrong for not kicking horny girl out. She broke the hostel rules. Bad google review and move on. If it helps I've never had this issue in female dorms so it's unlikely to happen again.
People having sex in hostel dorms is the WORST KIND OF SHIT
Make a scene. Yell. Turn on lights. Tell them to get out. Even in the middle of the night, go to the front desk and report it. Demand they do something. People that do this are trash. Inconsiderate. Selfish. Rude. They should be kicked out. Edit: typo
Same thing happened to me, thought it was a mixed dorm. Still, it wasn't ok. I had the top bunk bed and they were in the bottom one 😬 
At some point they left though, thankfully, around 4am.
Worst thing was that one of them returned at 7am, turned all the lights on and started telling to wake up their friend (and the other 7 people sleeping there). Thankfully they left the same day.
That is not normal, I’m a guy and I would never want to have sex in a dorm room with randoms even ignoring the female dorm issue.
I had a guy in Berlin I met at a club follow me back to my hostel room and literally harassed me to go inside and I repeatedly told him no, there’s other girls in there wtf? Even drugged out of my mind I would not feel comfortable doing that and idk how other people do. Just get another private room. I know with males in general it’s “guy code” to be ok with guys bringing girls in, because they don’t feel as threatened with women or whatever….its totally different with a bunch of sleeping women having a male there.
not sure this applies here, but avoid party hostels, ones with bars, etc
Disgusting, you should have stood up and shouted and went to reception. That is gross.
[deleted]
This is why I would rather pay for a hotel.
I hate to say it but this is why I’m vehemently anti hostel to begin with. There’s often zero respect for other people’s space/comfort, safety is an issue, etc… I’d rather spend a little more for a private room and meet people through activities as opposed to hostel
That's when you get a bucket of water and dump it on them.
I’ve probably spent 300 days in hostels and this happened me twice
Happened to me too, and it was two couples at the same time. Disgusting, and reception didn't care at all, so this must be super common.
Whenever that happens and if there’s no help from the hostel staff, I just turn my flashlight on and proceed to act like I’m recording them. I’ve been in a few fights because of that, but honestly I don’t care as long as I don’t have to be grossed out by sex noises
This is why I only book private rooms in hostels
You should let her boyfriend back home know.
To be honest this is a problem despite what dorm you stay in, my first night in lisbon i checked into my room, and the first thing i saw was an irishman shooting glitter powder out of his asshole
I am so sorry this happened to you.  I always pay extra and stay in a female only dorm and thankfully haven’t had this happen on any of my travels.  
 It’s rather gross behavior, toxic and all the other shit as well. I would say if this happens to anyone else turn on the lights take out your phones and do a full on live video on socials. If they have no decency and don’t care that others are in the room with them where it is public then live feed that shit.   Then go ahead tell the front desk and leave an awful review.  If two others want to scare me might as well meet at their level. 
 Good luck everyone out there.
I would just go for the embarrassment, they have no shame....so approach the dorm, open the curtain and say can I join in, I love giving golden showers and shitting on your tits.... no point in getting angry and pissed off.... that affects you and not them at all 😅 

at the very least youll have a good story about their reaction
I've experienced this in an 8 person mixed dorm. I'm at the age where I believe a little embarrassment goes a long way and I have no shame. I'd either, A. Turn on the lights and say loudly, I guess they like it when people watch them having sex. Or B. Get out of bed and start recording them having sex blatantly from multiple angles while saying out loud, this is going to make a great porno! 

These inconsiderate asshats are counting on others ignoring them and saying nothing. 

Another example is if you're in a small space like an airplane or a bus and someone is listening to music too loudly, start singing along while looking them dead in the eyes. They'll turn that shit down. Or another example, if they're on speaker phone, start engaging in the conversation. It's clearly for everyone right! Lol

It's the old crazy vs stupid argument. 😄
For the love of god… give us the name. Fuck this place.
This happens in dorm rooms from time to time and is also a security concern. You should be able to get single or double rooms in hostels too. Next time they disrespect turn on the lights. It always works. The others in the room will feel the same as you anyway. And most don’t want to be seen shagging in a room full of people. Sometimes you can request a room where others can’t and agree in the terms not to invite unexpected guests in the middle of the night and some hostels even have this policy for security reasons. I once saw a dude get pulled out of a dorm room by the ear and kicked out of the hostel for such acts. He repeatedly did it though. So his fault and everyone was pleased to see him go.

I am a male and was once put into a female dorm room. I was the first one there. Then it filled up quickly with females. It was a large 12 bedder room. I realised the person at reception put me in a female room. But I was now stuck there as the hostel was booked out. So the females in the room did’t care at all. Actually it was a good laugh for us all. That day I made some of the best friends in my life.
People keep saying "especially" in a female only dorm, yet if I was in a mixed or all male hostel as well, I don't care if there's a language barrier and it's two gay Shaquille o'niels going at it, I'm going to fucking yell at them. I had to put up with enough of this shit when I was in a barracks with other male roommates
Just ask to join in next time.
This isn't very common, but it's not unheard of. If you have enough money, just book private rooms or even airbnb flats, usually lots of things like pub crawls you can participate even without staying in the hostel. In many places, even going to hostel bars without staying there is ok, though not everywhere.


If you don't have enough money to not stay in dorms, I guess staying in more quiet hostels may help. But ultimately it may happen again, hopefully not often.
I actually had to escape a bad CS experience last fall I'm Brussels. Escaped to the wonderful town of Bruges, but had a similar experience there as you just had. Booked an only female dorm to feel more safe, and a very young girl had brought back a guy to sleep with in the middle of the night in the 8 person all female dorm. Some of the others went to the reception to inform them, and when the receptionist came the guy had left. The girl got confronted and denied everything, but she got a strict message from the receptionist that she had to pack her stuff and leave the hostel immediately. It was 4 in the night.. We all talked about it in the morning, debating the experience and whether it was too harsh kicking her out in the middle of the night. Anyways, just wanted to share my similar experience.
reminds me of the time I was in Granada spain dude brings a girl home at like 4am proceeds to fuck her like she owed him money she’s moaning loud etc. The dude had whiskey dick and coudn’t finish random Irish guy gets up after like 25 minutes, turns on the lights and says she had five minutes to leave before he beats the living shit out of both of them(straight face, 0 emotion behind his words). The guy looked like he would genuinely do it. Girl grabs her shit and was out of there in like a minute and a half. Me and my friend had to step out because we coudn’t stop laughing. Room was silent as a church at midnight after that.
LOOOL hostel life
Get out your camera and film them. I bet that’ll stop them.
Hahahahaha. Welcome to hostels
Sounds like a party hostel classic. 
I'm sorry you've went through this :/
This is why I never go to hostels.
Brussels, Belgium, are depressing shit holes you are better off the Netherlands.
How are they letting randos in
Next time it happens spray them with water
This is fairly common and happened to me as well. It was a mixed dorm of about 15 people, one of the girls complained to the owner and all he did was let her stay in another room, didn’t care at all about the people banging
Sorry it happened to you same thing happened to me in Queensland I think I’m a bit scarred. I slammed the door the next morning when I left as pay back. should have screamed like a banshee while they were going at it.
Never thought that could happen
Report immediately, not next day. Even if they didn’t have sex, having someone not from the room in the room is not ok. Especially a man if it’s a women only room. I woulda brought the staff there so quick.
People gonna people.  I once woke up to two people fucking right beside me.  Have you never been in a college dorm?
es una de las razones por las cuales siempre prefiero gastar un poco mas y ir a una habitacion sola, una ves me paso esa misma situacion y otra ves me paso la situacion de que la habitacion era supuestamente sola para hombres pero en la noche me desperte y habia un hombre desagradable masturbandose en la habitacion mientras todas dormiamos luego de esas dos situaciones y una situacion que tube en un hostel que un hombre en la madrugada se metio donde estaba y quiso tocarme dije jamas volvere a ir a hostel.
First time in a youth hostel?
LOL literally one of the most average/common hostel experiences. Congratulations, you are now a platinum member. I remember sharing a dorm with a bunch of other dudes and there was this gay guy that insisted him walking around in his fucking banana hammock was no big deal. Hope you learned a lesson OP, random women can be just as feral as random men. I remember walking in one night, super late and drunk and seeing this dudes perched up ass in the air literally waiting to get railed and I just yelled "wtf!?, No one here wants to fuck you!" I was the asshole for waking people up wen I said that lol, the irony. 

Maybe you should be banned from staying in hostels because if you travel like this enough, I promise this story will not be the only time you experienced something like this. 

When shit like this happens it's just a funny story to talk about later, fucking relax and get over it OP, no one is saying it's ok but the reality is that it unfortunately happens. Influencers and the ones pandering to that lifestyle should be the ones banned from trying to glamorize the backpacking scene or lifestyle. It is dirty, it is cheap, fun, but also has it's compromises. Quite frankly I think you're an idiot to complain about this. You'll probably have a mental breakdown when you witness your first crazy, homeless aggressive public masturbator going at it.
Get a hotel room if you want privacy.
Reminded me of my hostel in Porto where a guy brought a girl with him into the mens showers to shower together
Uhh get a hotel maybe? Hostel life is.. hostel life. People are constantly hooking up. Females, males, trans, etc. Young travelers often hook up.
I was in a dorm recently where this happened. There was a girl who brought a boy in. They were going at it and keeping people up after the lights were out. People in the room were coughing and making noises as to signal we could hear, but they didn't stop. A guy in the room stood next to them, you'd think they would stop but they just continued, and then she went to sucking him off too! Whilst getting penetrated! I thought well what the heck, and stood by them and she let me join in too. It was a 12 person dorm. Eventually one by one all 12 people had joined in and it became a full on orgy. I guess everyone was happy in the end and I slept quite easily.

If you can't beat them, join them.
Staying in a hostel means you’re at the mercy of other people and their BS.  Doesn’t mean you’re wrong for being angry but it is what it is. If it’s not one thing it’ll be another
Sorry but if you stay in hostels then this will happen often, if you'd like more privacy then start booking private rooms - sometimes not that much more expensive. You were right to complain though.
LMFAO
Seriously, wtf makes people think they can control the behavior of others in spaces that aren't private?
This wasn’t a bad hostel experience. You’re just bad at travel. If you want to travel the world? 

You’re going to need to loosen up a bit.
Wait a few decades. Men won't look at you period.
Just travel when you have more money to stay in a private room or hotel.

I’m so glad I’m old and don’t travel like this.
I would never stay in a hostel. I always had a feeling this would probably happen and never booked any. If you’re too poor and need to sleep with 10 people in the room, maybe you should wait to travel.
Drop me a message!
Don\`t be a wet fish, let people have fun, you\`re only young once!
[removed]
Eh it’s hostel life, we’re all adults get over it.
Men are more decent compared to these.girls. see the man couldn't have done that in his place if at all he's staying in all men's dorm,
Yup, this is how it works in hostels. Saw this throughout my time travelling Vietnam and also in Cape Town hostels. But it's not been the case lately when I've travelled to Europe.
Next time call 911 so the whole hostel gets into massive trouble!!!!!!!!!!!!
Which is worse though? What happened to you or when a bearded deep-voiced muscular *woman* (because *they* identify as a *woman*) decides to check in and sleep next to you. I guess my question is, has Belgium turned into Blue State USA yet?
Oh girl I feel you, really don't understand these heterosexuals, go get a room
While I can imagine how terrible that must’ve been. That’s sounds like a great fucking story.
In Amsterdam people pay for such an experience 😂
Always do your research before booking your hostel - you can figure out which hostels are for partying and which ones aren't through hostelmatch
🤣😂🤣😂🤣😂😂🤣 that's outrageous, I've laughed for about 3 mins imagining that happening..... and no one said anything??? 

whats wrong with people, the things they'll accept to avoid confronting someone
Well...did you tip when they were done?
people like this genuinely need to just get their own space
Are they more expensive? I'm a man and while looking for the cheapest rooms, I ran into the problem of the cheap ones being female only.
How often? I’ve stayed in a few 4-8 beds in mixed dorms and this hasn’t happened. Is it somehow more common in female-only? That would be ironic.
Do you think it happens more than mixed dorms?
Yes, absolutely! Hostels have staff members there to help with these types of problems.  If someone has a problem in a dorm, report it, even if it’s uncomfortable.  Otherwise the staff/management won’t ever know, be able to help, ban problem guests, nor have the opportunity to revise policy/security to limit future problems.

Hostels are full of humans in shared spaces, and inevitably, some of those humans will be complete pieces of shit 💩.
Turn on the lights when this happens. Everyone else will feel the same as you anyway. And nobody wants the lights on in a room full of people while shagging. Plus do you really want your stuff stolen. It happens all the time too. Get the hostel to update their security policies or leave a negative review of the hostel. They hate that.
there is no way I'm staying quiet , I will absolutely troll them to guy heaven...... they shag for weeks after i  destroyed them verbally
I've seen people get beaten over this kind of behavior in mixed dorms.
Well it certainly is normal. But I agree that’s it’s not okay.
[deleted]
places with automated check-in don't have staff during the night.
Genuine question - would the person who booked the hostel room be allowed to stay until the next morning? I couldn't imagine kicking someone out at 2am in some random foreign city where they might not even speak the language, no matter how badly they break the rules.
It seems like they were reported the next day after the fact
I remember staying at a hostel that basically kept small private rooms empty and rented out as shagging shacks 🤣
Right? Get a private room you cheap horny assholes.
Yea I was in a dorm recently where this happened. There was a girl who “made it very clear she could hear them” by loudly coughing and rolling around in her bed. It didn’t work. 

 Once I yelled at the drunk idiots to cut it out, they stopped immediately. I didn’t even have to leave my bed. Guy didn’t look me in the eyes for the next 3 days. Lol. 

 Judging by the comment tree it’s not for everyone I guess, but standing up for yourself is a useful skill. 
Absolutely. No passive aggressive remarks or gestures. If you don't like something so blatantly against the whole purpose of the female-only dorm, you should say it directly. I know that confrontation is uncomfortable, but so is having to sleep next to a couple having sex in a female-only dorm and complaining about it after it happens does nothing.
This, I only had a single issue like this in several years of using hostels, but getting up and reporting to the front desk did the trick
I like your style!!!!! 100% this!!!
Yep that’s what I do. Everyone in the dorm will be with you anyway.
Yea I bet OP would feel MUCH safer after doing that 

Clown
Don’t do this, do what you did, move on, and give the place a bad review. If you make a scene at the hostel, they will probably kick YOU out and could threaten your chances at other hostels as many are affiliated with each other.  Btw, this will not be the last time this happens and I would consider such possibilities in future planning.
One Indian man tried to tell front desk, and they cancelled his reservation and throw him out, so only do this if you are racially privileged.
I have never once been bothered more by people fucking than I have by people that decide to kick up a fuss about it. Nothing like the possibility of conflict to keep you awake.

They’re being inconsiderate, don’t be more inconsiderate to stop them. 

Make sure you have earplugs, complain in the morning. Don’t get into a shouting match in the dorm at 2am please.
People like you suck
Making a scene/yelling is just escalation.so unnecessary and annoying 
Just go to the front desk. Tell them about it and wait it out.
On the contrary I’ve never really had issues in party hostels and they have only been more social. I’ve never had anyone be sexual in a dorm before.
I mean in a party Hostel this seems like expected behavior.
for what reason exactly?
Plot twist: audiences singing baby shark while he is shagging is his kink, and makes him blast like a firefighter in seconds. Eh, still pretty effective either way
Maybe just a spray bottle, like they're cats.
And get arrested in a foreign country for assault. Any more solid advice?
Exactly
Every hostel on earth
Literally?
The point being that the sight of two giant Black men having gay sex would normally be terrifying and intimidating for you but your annoyance would override the fear?
"Room for one more on your twin-size mattress?"
That’s actually fine lol. Sex in the room with other people is messed up
Hostel name?
This is not normal and should not happen at any hostels and has never happened to me at any of the probably 30 or so hostels I’ve stayed at
Can we stop normalising this? Just because it happens does not mean it is okay. It’s disrespectful, and just because someone books a hostel, it doesn’t mean they consent to watching strangers have sex
Never been to a hostel but a lot on other kinds of cohabitation and surprised this is considered ok at hostels. I don't think I know any other place where it would be ok to include others in your sex life without their consent.
It's not really fair that you got so many downvotes. You're just stating facts, this happens a lot. It's not an enjoyable part of traveling, but it is factually correct. I'll probably get down votes for this too though haha.
Yeah, I've been both contributing to and observing that myself in the past 😆

Doing it in an all female dorm feels wrong though.
Telling people they need to stop being poor is definitely the correct response to this post.
Funnily enough, my only experience of anything similar was a woman specifically going out to fetch a bloke and bring him back to the (mixed) dorm. Apart from that, had a bloke watching porn once, with the speaker on. (Small sample size, obvs)


Edit, at another, it.seemed.like the staff all had their girlfriends over, so it felt a bit seedy, or relaxed, depending on your view.
He should've stopped being a little fairy princess who likes soft feminine things and fucked one of the blokes in the men's hostel instead
[deleted]
You realise 911 is only for America right??
You think there's no women with muscles, deep voices and facial hair? Get out more, square
It’s certainly one of the fucking stories
At some point you gotta just throw a rag at the dude. When he looks at you, just say sorry it looked like you were about to bust. He won’t be able to stop thinking about it the whole time, and hopefully finish early.
Most definitely can't afford it in 21st century global village
Here in SEA they are usually the same price. But booking sites always show the cheapest available room as the price, so when you try to book, it's either female-dorm or expensive private room.

There are rarely, if ever, any male-dorms.

So when all men need to book mixed dorms, and as this thread shows, many women prefer mixed dorms, they end up booked fairly quickly.
Oh weird, yeh they’re always more expensive when I’m looking!
Usually they tend to be more expensive however mixed dorms book up quicker
Supply. Demand.
Well in my own experience it’s occurred 7 different occasions after the 7th time I didn’t bother booking female only ones after that.
Does what happen more?
[deleted]
No, the issue is the fucking.
Ever heard of manners? 

See if you cough, something u can't control or stop, that is a different thing

But behaving like it's your personal room and making all kinds of noices without the regards for your fellow travellers is absolute rude assholeness. 

Also all women dorm means only women, having a man watch a girl sleep may not be comfortable to her. And having sex in public place regardless of gender is still a dick move, or should I say pussymove in this case. 
When in public act like it, that includes pleasuring yourself too, otherwise you are the one who feels entitled to make everyone in dorm accept you.
As someone who has managed 3 hostels for 15 years, I can concretely state that men are far far more likely to sexually harass or assault than women are.  There are always one or 2 creepy males at any given time who don’t understand boundaries.  Safety is a key reason why female dorms exist.  Men do not belong in female dorms.

Yes, this is a generality and all sorts of “whataboutisms” can be engaged in, but those are exceptions rather than the rule.  In large hostels, men are frequently removed for making persistent unwelcome/creepy advances on women. 

In circumstances where any guest brings an unregistered guest to stay without paying and/or to fuck in a shared dorm room, they are always evicted, usually in the middle of the night as soon as it is reported - bye bye idiots.
No it's definitely the man, the disturbance just makes it worse. What if OP or another dorm mate was Muslim? It would be a massive violation for a Muslim woman who covers her hair to uncover it in the safety/presence of other women and suddenly find a man looking at her hair in what she thought to be a safe women-only space. Even taking religion out of the picture, what about the very likely scenario where a woman takes off her bra and has her nipples visible under her sleeping shirt because she expects to be solely in the company of other women? What about a sexual assault victim who is justifiably scared to share a room with a man, and therefore spends extra money on an all-female space only for that to be violated? There are a litany of reasons why this is so unacceptable.
I can't imagine a hostel with zero staff on-site even if there is self check in
That doesn’t sound safe at all.
Yes we usually let them stay if it's very late, unless it's something super outrageous and usually the police are called. You are correct, it could be unsafe and it can be a liability issue for us, but they are told they must leave when they get up and cannot return.
A reasonable solution would be allow them to sit in a reception area until they make other arrangements.
Shut up and don’t break the rules then!!!!!
As if it would be so bad to wait like 3-4h
They can still be kicked out the next day. Assuming you can get the other girls to cooberate your story
You don't need to be in the same room with someone who doesn't respect others! If you can, you can even tell her that she can ask to change rooms.
If there's no staff on duty, it seems like they might have been worried that something could go horribly wrong in that scenario.
Or they’ll be mad at you for shouting and potentially starting fights when they’re trying to sleep.
Why would they kick you out? What wrong would you do besides complaining?
Why would you leave a bad review because of the behavior of other guests? It’s a hostel not a nursery
In a Hungarian party hostel I once got fingered up the arse in the ladies shitter
Could it be because this scenario is more likely to happen? Alcohol tends to decrease inhibitions.
😂 I cackled, happy Friday to you too
It's Belgium, basically anarchy. People do whatever here and don't get prosecuted
I lived in one- that’s not true: there might be a level of disrespect and discomfort, but not *fucking* while you’re in the room. That’s utterly disgusting, and I’d probably get kicked out for handling the situation myself
...Yes?  
I think most people would normally be terrified of that specific scenery.  
Are you saying you'd not speak up because you're too busy staring at them in friendly admiration or what?  
Lol, the only point is that Shaq is well known for his physical size and intimidation factor, so even in the worst theoretical case of disruptive hostel sex fiasco where there's two Shaqs, everyone should work together to shame the offenders instead of pretending to tolerate it by keeping quiet. What are they gonna do, stop buttf\*cking each other and beat everyone up?
That’s disgusting. Get a room. Your own room. People who do that are just gross.
Obviously sex in the room is worse but also like why do you feel the need to shower together in a hostel
Well then you happened to have good luck. It is incredibly often.
Happened to me several times. I don't care about it though.
I'd call it sexual harassment even. Having sex in a room of stranger is just freak behaviour.
No one is saying it is ok. But unfortunately that is one of the realities of staying in hostels. It is just one of the shitty things you might have to deal with while staying in hostels. Have more money and book a hotel or a private room in a hostel. Yes obviously people shouldn't do that but people also love cold play and voting for the Nazis, you can't trust people. Don't go to McDonalds and complain that your food isn't from a Michelin star restaurant.
>and surprised this is considered ok at hostels

It is not okay
It is not considered ok. It unfortunately happens. Damn you people are dense.
reddit is weird
Please stop.
Don’t do that any more. If you can’t afford a private room you can’t afford to fuck while traveling.
I didn’t say anything about stop being poor.  If you’re a young college age person and these types of scenarios are uncomfortable for you, pay a little extra to get a private room.  If it’s that important to you, put it in your budget.  You can’t control what goes on in a shared space so control what you can - where you stay.  I’m not excusing what the couple did, but that stuff happens a lot in shared dorms, it’s just a fact.

I stayed in hostels when I was young and poor but I always paid extra for a private room.
LoL your username is the answer why he didn't do it in the male dorm 😂
How are you staying protected?  Is this a conversation that takes place often with travellers?
No it very much isn't! I've never encountered this in Asia, and considering how cheap it'd be to get a private room....
[deleted]
Not the same musculature. Not the same deep voice either. And from the 80s to the 2010s, the number of women I've met who could literally pass off as a masculine man has been a big fat zero. I've known a few who *could* pass of feminine or androgynous men. But never a masculine manly macho man.

Plus, the point I was trying to make is there are too many people now trying to gaslight themselves and others that how you identify is how you are biologically. Women only dorms should strictly be kept for women. Just like women only sports. Not men who want other people to *accept* they are women when they obviously know they're not.
" I guess you're up for a threesome then" 
is my usual line, very loudly
Then go find a bush outside
Are you sure you did not run into some kind of curse during your travels? That's really bad luck, sister.
7 times out of how many?

7 out 8...?
7 out 1000 ...,?
[deleted]
lol. Okay I agree if you’re a porn star or really want to be one and put on a live show. 😆
>making all kinds of noices

All noise is bad in the quiet of night when people are sleeping. 

That includes my alarm at 5am so I can leave you get my flight and includes those landing at 11pm and getting to the hostel at 1-2am...
Glad to ~~hear~~ read that
>No it's definitely the man

Well if he/they were quiet she would have never even known. 

The noise was definitely the issue
Corroborate
COOBERATE
Like what? They would *murder* them?
True. They can try. But I will make their stay hell and I’ll make them feel super uncomfortable. My presence will do that when they see me.
Freaking out and causing a scene is what was described. This could escalate to inconvenience for others not involved, involve staff in your behavior as well and even violence as you don’t know who you are dealing with.  It’s an all around horrible approach to a place you are foreign to and people you don’t know.
How much did it cost?
At least it isn’t in the dorm I suppose
More info on this story please…
I was downvoted for asking for clarification 😭
In the very least the police would be called and you'd have a mess to deal with and be kicked out of your accommodation. All that because someone annoyed you?
I’ve never done it myself, but it’s almost like a right of passage. I’ve unfortunately witnessed it at even the most corporate, hotel-like hostels in the world.
Why bring up black men? Why?
It would be, at least for me, too unique and unusual of a phenomenon, that I would be paralyzed and possibly mesmerized.  So maybe just continue to watch it for the novelty.  Could end up being one of the highlights of the trip.
Lmao easier said than done in the middle of the night. I’ve done it. And I’m pretty clean. Shit happens. What’s gross is judging people for things that isn’t hurting anyone lmao. Calm down a little you’ll prob be happier


Edit: by I’ve done it, I was referencing the shower lol. I have some deceny
Assuming to have sex lol
It doesn't bother you people are fucking on the bunk above you while you're trying to sleep? You getting off on it or something? 😂
It is literally sexual misconduct. Can’t believe the people minimizing this behavior.
Yeah that's when I was young, don't worry.
[deleted]
[deleted]
7 out of like maybe 11-12
This is from like 5+ years ago when I backpacked both SEA and Central America, but it’s not very common in most hostels. You’ll find it more in party hostels but for the most part people were respectful of others. Probably can recall like 3-4 times total on my trip out of like 50+ hostel stays. 

Coming from a dude who stayed mainly in mixed dorms. People usually called them out and they move to the showers etc…
Don't be obtuse. An alarm is something you need so you can ensure you don't miss your flight. Getting to the hostel late is another unavoidable thing due to timezones, delays, schedules etc. You do not need to intrude on others' privacy and sleep just because you're desperate for sex, especially when some women book these rooms specifically out of fear of sexual harassmrnt and assault.
Coboburate
I'd rather freak out than subject myself to that. As a woman I do not consent to listening/seeing someone else have sex nearby me. I don't give a damn. I was flashed once at a hostel. Never again.
About 5 billion.
Humans are silly lol
[deleted]
how dare I make a shaquille o'niel joke in 2024 on reddit, back to the gulag for me
Exactly, totally uncalled for.
Consensual sex is not a “shit happens” scenario. Do it somewhere private or don’t.
are you going to die? you don't need to have sex in shared public spaces. it's disgusting.
What’s gross is exposing people to your sex life who didn’t consent to hear your cheek clapping and moaning. It’s not as sexy to others as you might think…
I bet you have a broccoli head haircut
As far as I’m concerned if you can’t afford a private room you can’t afford to fuck.

Disgusting behavior. You’re not homeless. You’re on vacation. Have some respect.
That seems more decent and allowable than f#cking in a shared room.
No lmao, it's just young people having fun imo. Yeah it can be annoying but I usually just fall asleep again and let them do their business. If I can't deal with dorms I pay for a single bedroom.
That’s so true. A little liquid courage can definitely help everyone relax and have a good time. Hope you have a blast and stay safe on your next sex fest adventure!
Jesus, horrible bad luck. I've been going to hostels for 10 years now and not once I had someone shagging in a dorm. (That I know of)
you must be picking them crazy party hostels then, change your style and go for the mid range , more local hostels
I don't get why everyone is saying this is to do with sex.

99.9% of noise in hostels is not sex related. 

You having sex with someone at 1am or you coming back drunk at 1am and stumbling around making noise is the exact same thing imo.

The noise is the issue not what exactly the noise is
Cobooberate
Starting conflict with strangers is not a safe option, and disturbs everyone else in the dorm. So it’s bad advice to spread on this sub regardless of what you’d rather do.
And very horny.
Depends on the guy's personality. Alternatively he might just beat the ever living fuck out of them. But I'm sure they won't just respond with "awww damn" and then move on. Either way, pouring a bucket of water over someone is not an appropriate response and would deserve retribution of some sort. Just report it to staff or turn on the lights and make em leave. It is a disproportionate response to assault someone.
Not white bucko or a kid
🤣🤣
Yea, I've probably spent over 2000 nights in hostels and only had it happen 4-5 times. 

Usually we just had a laugh about it, though. Sometimes we'd make funny comments while they were in the act and become party friends for a day out of it. 

Really depends on the type of hostel as well. It's definitely more likely to occur in party hostels.
You really think watching porn on the bus with the volume up is the same thing as listening to a podcast? Just stop.
I don’t know why you can’t seem to understand this is specifically about sex. The other people in the room didn’t consent to be part of this girls public sex kink.
Well one is a crime, for starters.
Copulate
Too bad. I'm spreading that advice. I don't stand for unwarranted sexual behavior in my presence even if being quiet about it keeps the peace.
[deleted]
Broccoli-head at heart 😂
This is the one, boys
Happy cake day !
Well speaking for myself if someone poured a bucket of water over me in any situation, you better be ready for a fight.
Chaturbate
Thank you!!
You should get those anger issues checked, bud. It’s genuinely not that serious. Saying you’ll beat someone up over something that frivolous is unhinged as hell, seriously get help.
Having an entire bucket of water thrown onto you is nothing? Okay. Maybe you're a pushover who lets people violate you but not everyone is. Thanks for the unsolicated psychiatric advice but you can shove it up your ass pal.
My recital : Ständchen by Schubert with one hand
My recital playing stänchen by Schubert with one hand🎹🎵🎶
OP (/u/Oscillator-B) has requested their performance be watched and enjoyed. Critique, except for praise and encouragement, is forbidden. Similarly, commenting on OP's appearance is forbidden. Be kind, and remember piano is enjoyed by those of all skill levels, ages, backgrounds, prior training, and musical styles!


*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/piano) if you have any questions or concerns.*
No recital would be complete without people coughing in the background.
Otherwise, this sounds amazing. I'm impressed.
this is amazing. don’t ever stop playing!!!
What a great performance. Have you considered taking up the pipe organ? Having an additional keyboard for your feet could really expand the possibilities of what you can play. It'd probably be easier on your back too.
Been practicing this for 1 year now!
Thanks for all the upvotes reddit people!
[removed]
Very impressive.
After watching you play this piece in an older post, I was inspired to learn it too. I got it to an ok level and moved on but now after watching your recital, I will go back to polish up!
Sounds amazing. Well played. I think I wanna learn this piece as well. Really lovely
Honest question, does your shoulders and back hurt leaning towards the piano for a long time and holding the right hand in uncomfortable positions?

I ask this as a scoliosis patient.. Experience backpain after less than an hour of practicing almost every day...

Beautifully played though :)
Your performance stopped me in my tracks for the full duration. I experienced genuine musical immersion and the listening flow state took over. I was transported. I hope to do the same for my own audiences at some point. Thank you!
Epic
This is fucking great. Wow, well done and sounds wonderful
Wonderful. Consider look up compositions for one hand. Quite a few. Bartok for instance have written studies for left hand. https://www.amazon.se/-/en/Bela-Bartok/dp/0757977677
Bro, you're fantastic! Bravo!
Did you start learning piano before or after losing the arm?

Sounds good tho
Beautiful, thank you for sharing.
Hell yeah
Wow! Thank you for sharing. Love this piece and you play it beautifully.
Beautiful!
Great performance!
This is incredible! Congratulations op for your hardwork and thanks for posting.
Amazing!!
wow, this left me speechless. please don't stop playing, you have an impressive talent.
Very nice.  Making music is a desire for all of us! Enjoyable.
Great performance. I did the original version in my voice jury last spring. The piano version of this Lied always evokes a feeling of nostalgia for me.
Thanks for the walk down memory lane, when i was doing private voice lessons in community college, Standchen was one of the foreign language songs i had to sing and it’s such a fun and dramatic song. I enjoyed every minute of it. I’m still quite the novice at Piano but now i have one more song to learn!
you're amazing!
Well done. I’m a piano player and I watched the whole thing.
Your melodic projection is fantastic. You really sing those right hand parts out. More please:)
you are my hero. god bless your talents and dedication. lovely rendition.
You are an inspiration!!! This sounds so good!!!
Wow! Amazing! Very well played!
Amazing! You are so talented!!!!!
This stopped me in my tracks, amazing. I am a beginner and this was inspirational!
Thank you for viewing people, almost 23k views in 24hrs🫢
lol someone has a hacking cough at a piano recital that’s sitcom material
Nicely done! Thank you for sharing.
This is absolutely amazing and deeply inspiring. I have Scheuermann's Disease and Osteoarthritis and my back pain causes so many issues and often affects my playing. Seeing you persevere and keep your passion alive has been such a motivation for me. 


Thank you for sharing this performance!
fantastic!
Incredible! So beautiful. I am in awe.
I will never stop playing and sharing this ! 🎹🎶
I was thinking about that too. I’ve accompanied a congregation with one hand (severely sprained my left wrist - always secure all off-cuts on your miter saw!). With the pedalboard, no one was the wiser.
Bravo, and thanks for sharing!
The song or piano?! It's amazing and beautiful. Thank you for sharing with us! 😊
Thank you so much ! 😁
Thank you so much!
So nice i inspired you to practice this one also😁🎹
Sometimes when i practice for a few hours i get back pain, so then i take rest in between, especially when i practice some bars in the higher register i sometimes feel my back..
Brahm's transcription of Chaccone in D Minor is great one. I just got the book for the Busoni two-handed version, but 
 this one is also nice. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ljb5MvKv0Hw
Beautifully played. You should be happy about it.
Thank you, took me a lot of practice but i,m really proud of my performance!😁🎶
Yeah i know😅🤣
Luckily that person left after the first half of the show👌
Hi there, so nice i motivated you .
Sometimes my back is an issue because i really have to bend over to reach the higher notes.
When i take rest inbetween practice sessions i have less back pain.
Thank you, its my pleasure sharing this👌😃🎵
I have been playing for over 20 years ,but i really got good lessons since 2 years now.
This really helped me getting progress
Ah I see, take care :)
I have the book of chaconne, really difficult! But i think in a few years i can do that one too
I could imagine. You kind of have to use your whole body. That would definitely become tiring on those back muscles during extended practice sessions!
Guy in Sydney hostel gave a girl a golden shower
German guy came back from having "only 5 beers" and passes out on his top bunk. In the middle of the night he pisses himself and showers the girl below him. She wakes up mortified and switches rooms immediately. This guy doesn't wake up for hours and claims he feels fine. 

Staff change the sheets later that day.
Hostel staff said this happens every so often.
OP appears to have requested personal experiences from (women/people of color/LGBTQ+ travelers). If you are not a member of the requested demographic, please carefully consider whether your post will add value to the conversation.

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/solotravel) if you have any questions or concerns.*
I (23F at the time) was laying on the top bunk of an 8-person mixed dorm in Amsterdam, looking through photos on my phone when I heard my friend in the bunk below me say in a slightly elevated tone, “Eww, put your dick away!”. I look to my right, and this Italian guy who had checked in earlier was naked and shaking his dick at us. Making direct eye contact with me, then down to her, and motioning with his other hand for us to join him up in his bunk. As if shaking it at us (and in front of all the other occupants) would be appealing. One of the other girls in the room ran out and told the receptionist / front desk what was happening. In less than 5 minutes, a number of police officers AND the fire department showed up to escort him out. The hostel manager informed us he was now banned from all hostels / hotels in Amsterdam. Not sure what happened to him, all I remember was that it was VERY cold that night 🥶
This is making me rethinking my preference for lower bunk beds.
I had a similar thing happen. I was in a hostel in Valencia and an Aussie guy got out of his bed, came over to mine and pissed on me, then got into someone else's bed while they were still in it.
I was in a hostel in Belfast this Canadian bloke pissed two beds from the top bunk on consecutive nights. Unique achievement
Lol happened to me in a hostel I was living/working temporarily at also in Sydney. 

Irish guy came back drunk as fuck and stood up on his top bunk pissing all over. German girl below screamed and ran out. Felt awful for her
Once hooked up with this stunning blonde German girl at our hostel. 
We’d had a bit to drink, waited until the dorm was clear, had a wonderful time and then passed out straight away.
I woke up with a start in the night, she was sleeping with that one leg over me kind of thing and I could feel this warm jet firing all over my leg.
I wish I could say -plot twist- she was awake and just kinky. But no I got a sleepy golden shower. 
Didn’t know what to do, I didn’t want to embarrass her. So I woke her up and told her I’d pissed the bed 😩

Next day though she came up to me and apologised for peeing on me. Turns out she woke up mid stream, couldn’t stop and pretended to be asleep. 

Ended up dating for 6 months.
The relationship built on a house of piss
It's why I stay in hostels with like a beehive type of setup, not just double beds.
This didn’t happened in hostel but in student dormitory. Some random drunk guy opened the door of my friend’s dorm, went to the desk, opened laptop, pissed right over it, closed the lid and left.
I remember once, coincidentally also in Australia,a guy shit in the bed in my dorm room... luckily I don't think it landed on anyone else,he was at ground level,but the smell was most unpleasant.

I feel sorry for the girl and for the staff who have to deal with this kind of situation.
Got drunk at a hostel in Warsaw. Woke up in the middle of the night to pee. Shared bathrooms were in the hallway. When I went back to my room, I picked the wrong door (there were a few different dorms) and woke up totally confused a few hours later and panicked because nobody looked familiar.
Always go top bunk
This post, and the replies are ****WILD****. As someone who has never stayed in a hostel dorm, this cemented that I never will.
Why is it always the “German guy” doing weird stuff in hostels
How tf are so many adults pissing and shitting around the dorm like animals? I’ve been blackout drunk many times in my life and I have yet to piss myself or on someone else. If you do this you shouldn’t be drinking.
I worked in a hostel in Ireland, and I vividly remember when this happened to a guest. I was not there but I was told during overnight handover that it had happened. 

Stuff like this happens more than you think tbh
I’m too old for that shit, hotels ftw.
I had a bag of groceries and my only pair of sneakers on the side of my bunk and the girl above me was too drunk hung over the side, and puked all over it.  She refused to refund me anything until my whole dorm shamed her 😂👏🏽
What is it with Germans and golden showers?
Many years ago, my brother was the top bunk guy. Except he was in the navy and his bunk mates got him shitfaced on his birthday. Still love laughing about the story.
I don’t understand how people can’t handle beers like that. I’d be throwing up long before I pissed myself.
Reminds me of the time I was in a hostel in Gold Coast. 
Guy wakes up and starts pissing the the corner. I’m like WTF then the guy on the bed above me shouts “dude your pissing in the bin, just use the toilet it’s right next to you” 

Guy replied “nah the guy said it’s fine! We’re cool” and then continues to pee in the corner.
Ughhh why does this never happen to me!!! So annoying!
A friend and I met two Germans, seemed normal - that night one of them crawled into my bunk, turned my phone off and told me to “go to sleep” and spooned me. I did get up. Next morning he acted like nothing happened - ate waffles with them. German shenanigans, I guess.
No mixed dorms. Ever.
I thought this was gonna be an awkward, kinky hostel sex story and thought “Aww, good for them” but alas 😢
Escorted a drunk friend back to campus once and he pulled his pants down and peed all over his roommates bed and then went to sleep. I could have grabbed him but pee would have been flying everywhere. There was no stopping that firehose
All of these comments are still preferable to the passed out Dutch guy who was photographed getting sucked off by a monkey
Now I see why this subreddit loves hostels so much
I only stayed in a hostel once - it was in Rio during the World Cup in 2014.  Someone shit in the communal shower one day to the shock and horror oe the guests and staff.  A few days later, the guy who "worked" at the hostel for free board also got massively drunk and pissed on a sleeping guest. A few days after that, a few guests discovered bedbugs after getting the most disgusting massive blisters on their legs.

These are but a few of the things I witnessed at my first and last time staying at a hostel!

Eta - missed a word!
Going back about 20 years, I was in a hostel dorm room in Honolulu and a girl was setting up what I thought was some sort Satanic worship area with creepy books and ornaments in a corner next to her bed. So I’m watching this wide eyed wondering if I should ask to swap rooms, thinking I’d hear chanting or weird stuff during the night, but I was way too quick in judging her. We got chatting and I found out she was a Wiccan witch and it was really interesting to hear her story.
I am having a good laugh at the pissing stories.

Worst I did was puke in a corner of the hostel garden. Pretty harmless and boring.
females rooms only for meeee...
This reminds me of the time I was staying in a hostel in Warsaw. This drunk polish guy wanders into our room and starts pissing in the middle of the floor butt naked. He then picked a fight with a guy on the bottom bunk, and I ended up having to do something about it because everyone was hiding behind their curtains and the guy wouldn’t leave.
Yeah that sounds like a hostel experience. It never bothered me at that age… I mean getting pissed on would upset me obviously but this type of thing happening now and again just turns into a fun story for the breakfast or the next round of denning games. Seen crazy shit in the dorm rooms too in college.
The worst I had experienced was loud or smelly roommates. Reading these comments make me feel better now
OMG I once chundered all over my bed and in the tiny little sink and then passed out (12 people dorm lol). You can imagine the reactions the next morning 💀
Now I’ll never be bottom bunk again.
Was on a Topdeck tour several years ago, when we were in Switzerland a bunch of the Aussies/Kiwis got blitzed drunk. 

This poor kiwi lad gets up to use the facilities, but instead of making it to a toilet, he just imagines he's there- and pisses all over the open suitcase of one of his fellow travellers. 

Couldn't live it down for the entire rest of the trip.
Alcohol is so fucking stupid
I don't care if mf in a coma I'mma start throwing hands
Shower him with cooking oil to return the favour.
I remember going for a nap at a hostel in Barcelona and then waking up to the bed shaking as the guy above me was wanking.

I let out a cough and it suddenly stopped, then after a minute slowly started again 😩
Slightly different but I went to an online gaming clan airsoft meet-up at Sherwood Forest and everyone was sleeping in bunks in a scout hut or something- it was 2005 so the memory is a little hazy- and a shitload of drinking was done on the first evening. I woke up to the bloke on the bottom bunk opposite me shouting something like “that’s totally fucking out of order” because the bloke above had puked on him- literally onto his face- from above
Always the Germans… or Americans…🫣
Lmaooooooooo, this is wild. I’ve been in hostels a couple times and nothing too weird ever happened, just this one guy who was on one of the top beds and would jump out of it like he was doing parkour
My mate got really drunk in Bangkok, pissed against a wall, fell onto someone else bed and vomited on a poor guys pillow and his phone. I had to use a towel to mop up the mess after dragging my friend to the toilet.
Ffs I was about to have a Thomas the tank until  I opened it 
Utterly disappointed
Holy fuck I thought you were talking about me. I lost a family friend and drank myself to death. I woke up the next day and was told I pissed during my sleep. I was on bottom bunk. First and last time that happened. Oh god. I offered to buy someone a new bag.
this is the shit i wanna read here
When you stay in a hostel, you give up your right to complain about things like this. You should get a private room if you don't want this to happen to you <-- people on this sub
Yes another reason why I'm glad I stay in hotels and private rooms at a hostel when I feel more social.
Rob?
Add this to a list of reasons why I wouldn't ever go back to hostels
Damn, I've started to generally prefer the lower bunk nowadays for easier access, more points to hang up towels and stuff for airing/privacy and less risk of being blinded by someone lighting the ceiling lights in the middle of the night.

Being pissed on never really crossed my mind... maybe I need to reconsider my preferences.
This thread is hilarious and makes me feel quite lucky regarding my hostel experiences. When I was at an hostel in Prague this drunk guy did piss all over the floor but luckily it was the room next door to mine. Meanwhile I got a horrible cold and was nursed to health by 3 lovely Argentinian guys who were absolutely losing it at the piss man.
Hostels are cheap cuz you pay the rest with your mental health
Sometimes this costs extra … jus’ saying
Some drunk guy in my hostel in Porto, fully fell out of just bunk bed at 5am. It was quite hilarious but thankfully he was fine. The sound was comical.

It was a full on cartoon style “Fadunk-ding-BANG” followed by the dude releasing a long winded “ooowww”!

I was in disbelief and it absolutely woke everyone up. I was going to open my curtain and check what had happened but just giggled to myself and went back to sleep. Later that day, the guy sleeping under me confirmed that it was indeed a very drunk hefty American that fell out of his bunk.
Remind me to keep a plastic sheet and tape with me.
And this is why I could never do hostels Jesus
And they don’t care?!!!! This happens every so often 😨
I like to think back on stories like these when people act like I’m a snob for not staying in hostel dorms
ah the horrors of sharing a bedroom with drunken strangers
Damn, i always do top bunk and thank god i do
It woulda been a bar of soap in a sock for him. I woulda KILLED his ass!
Note to self- women’s only hostel or single hotel room.
Beyond me why anyone would stay in a hostel
feels fine lol is he a psychopath?
[deleted]
PODS are the way to go.
Hahah hostels CAN be fun
I definitely know someone who did this before. Very foul. There's probably pee in every hostel bed that isn't protected...
Yea I’m a grown ass man I don’t sleep in bunk beds lol this ain’t summer camp.  🏕️
Never been to a hostel, and now I definitely do not plan on it.
Shouldn’t matter….all stinky backpackers in there
i Have owned a hostel business in southern argentina in the past and i have seen all kinds of stuff and the golden shower is only one of them lol
I was in Brazil recently and some Australian guy was being a creep. Then eventually some Brazilian girl slapped him and all the guys started beating the shit out of him. 

I’m used to deal with vacationing Australians so I tried to help him from getting annihilated 1 on 7 and thats not the first time I helped a drunk Australian abroad lol
Some places you have to pay for that
Women's dorm always for me. And if not possible, top bunk. I've also witnessed dorm room fiascos and I hate to say it, but it's ALWAYS the men pissing, shitting, and crawling into other people's beds.
This sounds like Bounce Hostel. Was it Bounce?
This is why top bunk is best bunk
Did they charge her extra for that?
This is why I always get a private lol
Thanks for reminding me why I don't do hostels
East Asians are still too reserved
How much was the girl charged for this service?
I have been in many mixed Hostels around the world —- no problems ever, lots of fun
It’s always the German-speakers with the piss and shit. Something in their culture.
I’ll take top bunk TYVM 😭😭😭
Just don’t go to hostels? Just don’t 🤦‍♂️
I got super drunk in Belgium, climbed up to my top top bunk, realized I couldn’t climb back down fast enough to puke, so I puked into my pillowcase after ripping the pillow out. As I was bundling up my pukey pillowcase, the drunk guy in the bunk underneath me asked if I was awake and wanted to make out. I said no.

Miraculously the pillowcase had a plasticky lining (for idiots like me, maybe?) so there was remarkably little seepage when I woke up. I emptied it into the toilet and now I think about that experience every time I have a high percentage alcohol Belgian beer.
Is this surprising to anyone? Lol
You are all so wild with your piss and shit stories 😂, so glad the cheapest thing I will go for is 2 star hotels and bnb. I would never survive this stuff.
This is why I will pay for a private place.
Oh my.
If this was in el nido Philippines that might have been me doing the showering….
Oooh he would have gotten his ass kicked !
What the fuck is going on in hostels?
Why do people stay in hostels even a tiny chance of this happening, is enough for me never to stay in a hostel. I don't know how people can be so chill and it not end in violence.
This was a lot less hot to read than expected
I’m so curious what hostel you’re in because I was in Sydney a week ago and a girl said a guy came back drunk and peed on her luggage (he got kicked out and they paid for her laundry)
Reason 752 why I'll never book a hostel
Pisskreig.
This is why I don't stay in hostels
This unbelievably happens on planes sometimes too. 
I read about one last year when I was travelling around India. 

https://www.independent.co.uk/asia/india/air-india-fine-dgca-passenger-urinate-peegate-b2266522.html
Not that this excuses anything, but I feel like coed dorms are just a bad idea for everyone.
I'm sorry but that's not a golden shower. He p\*ssed on her. A golden shower is an act between 2 or more consenting adults. He p\*ssed himself and it inadvertantly fell on her.
ive heard of this happening in way too many hostels all over the world. drunk people just peeing on other people or their stuff and then calming going to bed as if nothings happened
Never experienced something as bad. Probably the worst thing is the dragon-like snoring
Hah, my first ever time in a hostel there was a German guy who drunkenly collapsed backwards onto his bunk and immediately started snoring at the same volume as a rocket launch. In the morning I found that at some point he'd pissed on my stuff.

He was extremely embarrassed and apologetic in the morning. Wolfgang turned out to be a pretty nice guy.

Didn't put me off hostels, must have stayed in 30-40 since. More recently there was a young Dutch girl who seemed very prim and proper. She was in a different dorm, but apparently she got back to her dorm after a night out and tried to piss in the bin, before being escorted to the bathroom by her roommates. She was mortified in the morning.
When I was just starting out backpacking and staying in hostels in southeast asia, I was staying in mixed dorms with like 15+ other people. I quickly realized that men are usually the ones causing some sort of havoc like vomiting, snoring loudly, loud and careless movements, being dirty, but most importantly, making women feel generally unsafe. I'm a tiny brown girl about 160cm and I'd always be a target for white guys thinking they could easily "bag" me. After a year or two and my financial situation got better and I got sick from the straight men experience, I only just stayed in max 6 dorm female only rooms. There were still some weird moments, but my travel experience def got better. It's just sad that because of this "gross straight men backpacking" culture, women have to adjust and pay more.

Now I'm never going back to hostels unless it's a private room and there's really no other choice.
If he’s German that may mean 5 Steins, in which case it would be about 8-10 pints.
These stories are very wild to me—people just pee on y’all and you don’t…you don’t start seeing red? Maybe that’s why I’m terrible at hostels 🥲
You know this could have done without making it sound like a sexual assault!
That’s horrific, glad she got to switch rooms.

I always choose a hostel that can provide female only rooms and I recommend other women do so as well, even if it costs a bit more it’s worth it. Not blaming this woman at all as she shouldn’t have had to deal with that in the first place but hopefully she’ll go for the female only rooms in the future.
Was in a 10 man dorm in Koh Phi Phi, Thailand. After a night out a drunk guy climbed down from his top bunk mistook the bottom bunk for a urinal and started pissing on the bed, along with the girl who was sleeping in that bed
Can confirm. This happened to me in 2004 in Sydney Central YHA. Super drunk English girl. It was gross. 

Also kept me of the bottom bunk for YEARS!

Incidentally, staff dealt with it extremely well. Claire was so pissed (!) she only complained that they were changing her and my mattresses & bedding.
Backpacking years ago on the west coast of Australia, I stayed at a hostel in Perth. A long-standing English resident got absolutely battered one night in a drinking competition, which he bigged himself up for... and got totally destroyed by the resident Russian. Four of us carried him upstairs; he was a big bloke, and slung him into his bottom bunk. 

At 4 am, there was a massive commotion in the dorm room hallway; loads of people were standing around in their PJs. Confused and still absolutely slaughtered, the English guy had woken up and proceeded to piss into this poor woman’s open locker on all of her possessions, all over the floor, and then once someone woke and frantically tried to redirect his aim, pissed out of the open window into the alley below. Unfortunately, the Russian and his girlfriend were enjoying an early morning smoke before bed outside in the alley. Needless to say, a golden shower was probably not what they bargained for, at least not with a drunk Englishman in an alley at 4 am. Furious, the Russian guy ran upstairs, and because he thought the golden shower was intentional, grabbed and threw the Englishman into the locker he’d just been peeing in moments before. In the tussle, they both slipped in the guy's piss and hit the deck. The two blokes, covered in warm, ripe piss, then scuffled for a few minutes before it was broken up by staff. Both blokes were escorted to the showers while more staff tried to clean up the piss fest all over the room. 

Anyway, they kicked the English guy out, took away his deposit, and fined him for some of the woman’s possessions, bedding, etc. The funniest thing was he moved to another hostel literally across the road and kept coming back to try and win over everyone’s good graces so they’d let him stay again.
No hostels for me 🙅🏽‍♀️
Very common. My friend was in Amsterdam and some girl in his dorm was high on weed or something. Around 4AM, she got down from bunk bed and pissed on the floor next to him. Sadly it was ADE weeks so all hostels were full, and they could not give him another bed/room. Poor guy had to sleep next to piss. Not sure if they cleaned it or not at that time in morning.
I guess that's one of the few benefits of having the top bunk. I'm surprised more top bunks (or all?) don't have rubber sheets in dorms.

My stays in Sydney were all fine. Mostly long term travellers/people staying so wasn't so good for meeting people. I did have one dorm room though where a guy brought a girl back and had sex in the bottom bunk opposite me. They were fairly quiet but she was still moaning a bit.
Germans are well known for their kinky stuff
Yea I’m never going to one of these. People smelled bad enough on trams in Dublin, I can’t imagine sleeping with them too
Why the hell is there not a waterproof layer over the mattress? It would even save money for the hostel, as they wouldn't have to clean matresses as often.
This post just reminds me why i can’t do hostels anymore
Also why is it always the Aussies?
Just when I wanted to try staying in a hostel for my next trip. I guess not 😅
pub crawl through Barcelona, the angry residence will spray you with a warm squirt gun from the balconies if it’s too loud.
Hostels sound so fun!
This solidifies my opinion that I am wayyyy too old for Hostel stays when travelling.
New fear unlocked
Reminds me of my last hookup where apparently I started sleepwalking, opened her closet and pissed on all her clothes before going back to bed.
I have a similar story from travels in India (Lucknow). 

The city isn’t known for backpacking so hostels were slim pickings. I ended up in a hostel that had a lobby and two connected dorms. That was the whole hostel. 

There were only three of us staying there and one of the guys got VERY drunk - to the point where he couldn’t speak. We each had our own bed luckily. I went to sleep early and awoke to him trying to get into my bed (I assume he was confused). I pushed him away and tried to fall back asleep. I woke up maybe 5 minutes later to the sound of liquid hitting the floor. I quickly realized it wasn’t water. I turned to his bed and found him naked, dick out, pissing onto the floor. 

Fortunately the manager put us in a new room and left him to sleep it off. Not an experience I’ll ever forget!
Here I am feeling bad when I would occasionally snore.
Can confirm people pissing their beds is a semi regular occurance.

I volunteered at a hostel in Bratislava, which is known being a bit of a party hostel. 

We'd usually have at least one a week. But we found it was predominantly English guests who would fall foul of it.
It can be sleepwalking. A lot of people do this shit
Ultimate gaslighting or maybe asslighting move!
Freshman year dorm.  Guy on my floor…we’ll call him “Carl”…lives with my friend “Don” in a triple/corner dorm.  

Event 1) Carl comes home drunk at 1am, passes out.  Don wakes up at ~3am to Carl pissing all over Don’s desk/papers/books.  Don yells “Carl, what the F### are you doing?”  Carl replies, “dude, don’t worry about it.”  Carl doesn’t remember anything the next day and was apparently sleepwalking/sleep-pissing.

Event 2) Carl, Don, and others from our dorm go to an off-campus party.  All pass out at the house around 1 or 2am. I wake up to somewhat yelling, “who sh!t on the floor?!”  Apparently, Carl missed the toilet in a drunken stupor.

Event 3) Craig, another freshman-year floor mate had 3 HS senior girls up visiting the college.  We all go out partying, and the girls stay on a futon mattress on the floor in Don/Carl’s room, cause it was a triple/corner room with the most space.  The girls wake up at ~6am to Carl standing over them, pissing all over them - in their hair, faces, sheets, etc.  The girls, horrified, go down the hall and bang on the door of Craig, who’s out cold.  Not knowing what to do, they proceed to pack up their things and make the 3+ hour drive back home, covered in piss.
oh gods im going to australia in may im already terrified 💀💀
Am reading all this and it cause for concern, as I am looking for low cost eco friendly accommodations in honolulu.  Any suggestions here
He was a German. Par for the course.
Did she tip him appropriately?
Honestly I seek out private rooms because I snore. All along I may have saved someone from the golden shower. 

Must admit that when I travel I can imbibe too much. Some of these stories though.
That’s why I always like the top bunks lol
These are the kind of “YT” people things you won’t hear about on mainstream social media. You’ll only see others receive backlash over their behaviors… This, on the other hand, is just seen as folly. SMH
What?
Fuck that shot. Better pay 10-20 more and have separate room
Dm 💦
I watched this happen in my room one time, but instead of pee, it was vomit
respect to the brother keep recharging his energy 😂😂😂😂😂
Thank you. Never going to haggle for the bottoms beds ever again.
Yeah. Welcome to the backpacker life bro !
Reading all these comments after booking my first hostel holiday 😐
Trash guy. Should be banned by all hostel
lol
imo this was the kind of guy who unironically thought dick pics turn girls on.
Oh thank God. I really thought this was going to go a different way, glad he got kicked out. What a creep!
Fire department??
Mi Scusi!
chap probably watched too many fakehostel clips
Did they escort him out naked?
Excellent! The Dutch are good at some things!
I imagined Fred Armison doing the bit from Eurotrip saying “Mi Scussi”.
Well done! Never let such creeps roam around you or your friends!
Glad they took it seriously and he was banned from everywhere. I'd imagine he must have been charged with something too. Hostels (and especially mixed dorms) are meant to be your safe and hopefully clean base to stay each night. I'd hope any guy seeing that would make sure he was dealt with and not just ignore it, as I'm sure women wouldn't feel safe after that.
This makes me never want to stay in a hostel what the fuck?
Going to Europe in June with my gf, we opted for private rooms. Rather spend the extra 100$ every 4 days…
Banned from all hotels and hostels in Amsterdam? Man I love western countries. So FAST in taking such actions.
Like jerking off or waving it around?


And I'm glad Amsterdam handled it well.
Uhhh Bella Donna, ehh, ascuzzi? 🐍👋
Never stay in a coed bunk pls guys don’t understand how to be decent to women they’re too obsessed with s3x
Least sexually aggressive Italian.
He sounds pretty cool.
The Fire department was there just for the drama.
W Ams police. Finally officers doing what they’re supposed to
Same for me, I have only ever gotten top bunks and now I am thankful even if I had to scale a sketchy ladder in the dark at 2 am.
Same; why did I read this one day before my trip 😭😭😭
I always went top bunk!!! 

You can control things far better. But sadly have to be careful with steps snd bladder control
always pick the top spot
Yup, ever since I got a bag of chips dumped on my head/in my hair at like 3am by some drunk French dude, I’ve opted for the top bunk. Plus, I feel like you feel the movement way more when someone comes into the top vs bottom.
This happened to me at Oktoberfest! A drunk Aussie got into my bed after I had already fallen asleep. (I sort of knew him and nothing happened so it was not a great move by him but not the end of the world.) I woke up in the middle of the night to him spooning me and I realized my butt was soaking wet. I quickly got out of bed to try to figure out what the hell was going on and I guess I woke him up. Do you know what he fucking said? “YOU FUCKING PISSED ON ME!” Loudly! He woke *everyone* up angrily announcing that *I* had pissed on *him*! The nerve! I’m still honestly more annoyed by the accusation than the actual pee. Thankfully someone flipped the lights and the evidence was there for all to see: my wet ass and his wet crotch. It was pretty clear who had *really* peed the bed.
I was at a hostel in Valencia and one dorm was still buzzing with the story that some guy drunkenly pissed on a sleeping woman a night or two before. One of the guys said he couldn't look at the woman the same way again — as if she'd created the situation?! [facepalm]

Anyway, I'm sorry this happened to you too. Maybe it's a Valencia thing? 🙃
Sanest Australian traveler
Australians are perpetually disgraced on vacations
Don’t care how drunk they are, would beat their ass for that
Someone pisses on me we are fighting
People would pay for this
This is so funny hahaha
Why do I have an almost identical story to this. In Budapest a drunk girl climbed onto the bunk above me and pissed on the guy sleeping there and used my towel to dry up. What is wrong with people?
Was he sleep walking? I’ve done that to my closet lmao
Sorry about that
What an absolute cunt
He didn't get kicked out after the first night???
I thought Australia was all about golden coasts, not golden showers!
That's beautiful man.
> Didn’t know what to do, I didn’t want to embarrass her. So I woke her up and told her I’d pissed the bed

Romance isn't dead
Thanks for the upvotes. She was a really lovely sweet girl and I couldn’t let her think that she’d pissed the bed, I know she would’ve been mortified.

I don’t want you to all think I’m some sort of chivalrous hero though, my current girlfriend/future wife shit the bed and I didn’t own up to that one.
I did offer to clean the sheets though.
> So I woke her up and told her I’d pissed the bed

And here I thought chivalry was dead. 

You, sir, inspire me to be a better man.
Too bad that didn't last. Would have been a wonderful story for the grandkids.
This is adorable
Love this 😆
I've never seen a clear dorm
The only kind of piss id take 🙌
Aww. 💜
Lol you simp
Like pods / capsules you mean? They are interesting, give you some privacy and can lock it when you step out.
Wait I’ve never heard of this lol
You don't get pissed on there?
What’s a beehive setup
So the upper bunk can piss on two people at the same time?
Any chains?
Totally agree, I always seek these style dorms out and am willing to pay more for them. They are usually superior hostels in general too.
This is why I don’t stay in party hostels.
Nice of him to close the lid.
I have known several people to pee in closets, vents, and my personal favorite, the crisper drawer in a fridge.  And yes he closed the drawer.
Geez I hope it was insured. 

Right now I can’t think of a bad enough word for him. If she finds out who he is she ought to fine someone to beat him up… and pour water on his laptop.

Turn about his Fairplay.

(ain’t Siri dictation cute!)
I swear this seems to be a thing with drunk people. They open things (perhaps subconsciously thinking about?) and piss on them. 
Old high school buddy opened the fridge mid party and started pissing in it. When everyone yelled at him he stated “it’s milk! It’s milk!” Then proceeded back to bed.
Shituation*
Wtf, I need details please. Grown man shit himself in a dorm, that is tragic
Now that’s too much
I died at “ground level” 🤣🤣🤣
Jesus. That’s a win ( as in horrific stories win)
I am confused. The dorms don't have key card access?
Unless you’re the pisser
I always went bottom bunk bc you get to reach your luggage from your bed.

Never had any incidents. These stories are ultimately pretty rare.
Nah so much work to go up the always shaky ladder.
Bottom bunk commands more respect
Honestly about 10-15 years ago when they were still cheap as chips it was worth the risk for the odd bad experience. (And being pissed on is extremely rare)

Today in some popular cities they're charging the same price for a dorm bed as a budget hotel in some cases. 

I'm glad I travelled a lot and stayed in hostels when I was younger. 

I couldn't do dorms now though.
it’s very rare that this happens. i’ve stayed in hostels hundreds of times and i’ve never experienced anything like this
A girl in my dorm brought a guy over at an ungodly hour. I heard them moaning for an hour. 🤮
I stayed in a hostel where some chick thought it was normal to leave her used tampon on the shower floor 
Eh you always hear the crazy stories. I’ve never had a bad experience beyond loud snoring.
I've stayed in hostels all over the world and never had anything like this happen. This isn't normal, thankfully.

With that said, I've had to sleep on the floor of the laundry room because a guy was snoring so loudly (then the staff kicked me awake, swore at me and threatened to call the police because they assumed that I wasn't a paying customer), a guy tried to fist fight me because I was snoring, and rarely have I ever had a genuinely good night's sleep in one... but.. no one has peed on me, so I've got that going for me, which is nice.
Just claim top bunk.  Establish urinary dominance.  Nbd.
This is nothing. You should hear the bedbug stories...
I would never sleep in the same room with somebody I didn't trust.  Especially if I were a young woman.  This just seems so weird to me.
I’ve stayed in plenty of places tbh and it doesn’t happen often.
I've stayed in many, many hostels throughout Europe. A couple in the USA too. Nothing crazy has ever happened like this. Slightly creepy people have came along but nothing illegal every happened afaik. No thefts too.
I’ve stayed in over 100 hostels in my last trip (many months long, all over Europe) and I’ve never ever experienced this, between both party hostels, non-party hostels, regular hostels, surfing hostels, hiking hostels, climbing hostels, etc. 

It truly is not that common. If you’re really worried about it, just avoid any party hostels anywhere where Australians do their contiki bullshit. The stuff people are describing here are much more a factor of Phuket party hostel than a hostel in Sarajevo.
Everything about a hostel just violates my sanctuary of peace.
I’ve stayed in them in my 20’s. Somehow I’ve managed to not piss on anyone.
[deleted]
I used to go to hostel when I was uni because you know, money.
I haven’t been to one since 2018 and this thread has cemented my unwillingness to use one ever again.
I always stay in hostels and have never had ANY problems
Just stay on the top bunk
I’ve stayed in tons of hostels and this never happened. Granted I do only stay at ones rated 8+
Especially mixed dorms. 

Straight-up disgusting 🤢 🤮
This sub has a huge hard on for hostels because you can MeEt PeOpLe. They are shit holes and attract shitty people, almost every bad experience I had travelling happened in a hostel or involved people who use them before I stopped going to them permanently. Too many people coming in coked off their tits or folks who can’t hold their alcohol and end up throwing all over the dorm floor or on someone’s bed. Some of the SE/East Asia hostels are truly wild. Like tank-sized cockroaches skating around the floors and bathrooms that straight up look like WW1 trenches.

The price is no longer that competitive either. You can either pay the same or a little more to get in a much more comfortable budget hotel where you don’t have to share anything with crack heads and thieves.
Triple cemented…
That's daft, I've slept in hostels for almost a year now and the worst incidence was loud Aussie bogan lesbian sex with simultaneous crying. Smooth sailing otherwise
One way to avoid this is definitely not staying in party hostels. There are hostels that are strict, emphasizing that partying is not allowed. Mostly to those who check in in groups. Others offer rooms with activities to encourage people to socialize, go pub hopping, until people get drunk then this happens.
Same!!!
This is like seeing that a murder happened in Tokyo and saying you'll never go to Japan. It's just wildly divergent from the typical hostel experience.
ive stayed in hostels for years and I've never experienced anything like these comments, worst was some loud drunk guys at night and a dumb girl packing her loud plastic filled suitcase at 4am.  I do recommend if ur a woman to ALWAYS do women only dorms. the worst of dorms comes from men and aussies
Statistically (anecdotally) Germans and Aussies are everywhere so it’s just a higher probability I’d guess
I don't know. All I can say is I share a mother tongue with "the German guy" and will go out of my way not to sleep anywhere close to him, ever.
They lost two world wars
Totally agree, like wtf is wrong with their bladder? I get shitfaced drunk every once in a while, never happened to me either. If I actually woke up to find that I had pissed all over myself I would not get wasted ever again probably 😅
The only time I’ve ever pissed the bed while blackout drunk was after getting spiked. I think if you add other substances it’s more likely.
You think it can never happen to you until it happens
I think I had a kidney infection for a while because there was a period where I was sleeping walking and pissing on the floor 

Hasn't happened in ages
It "depend's"
Yeah the moment I turned 30 I decided ha no fucking way am I sharing a room with a stranger/group of strangers.


Single room Airbnb's, apart-hotels, homestays, hotels.
Do you mean shitfaced in the literal sense? How did they accomplished that?
My mate pissed on a chair on a recent stag do, he was half asleep and drunk and had to be escorted to the toilet. Never happened to me as fair as I’m aware but is pretty common. It’s not intentional it’s almost like they’re sleep walking.
[deleted]
Piss in a cup and pour it on him
Some guys just have all the luck!
He needs a teddy bear to sleep and couldn't take it due to the strict baggage policy of airlines perhaps?

Honestly though that seems scary how did you even sleep
I heard the Germans didn’t have any sense of humor but I guess it’s just different.
>turned my phone off and told me to “go to sleep” and spooned me

I think we all need this
Nothing out of the ordinary here.
Ya let the dudes piss on each other lmao
Facts 😂 when I was younger I was more open to it but every weird experience I’ve had in a hostel involved a man.
Wait what
Why did they get blisters?
I stayed at a hostel in Honolulu about a year ago and woke up on my birthday to a beautiful European babes ass in my face while she was changing. I wasn’t sure if I needed to pretend I was still sleeping at first but it quickly became evident that she just didn’t give a damn. Was a great way to start a birthday
At least it was in the garden and not a roommate 🤢
My friend had a drunk girl piss on her when she pissed her bed.  A female room doesn't stop drunk ass holes from being drunk.  🤷
My friend was in a female room and the girl in the top bunk vomited over the side of her bed into my friend’s open suitcase below 🥲 nobody is safe
TIL women don’t pee
What did you do about it?!
Chundered is a term I had never heard before today. Had to google it.
TIL chundered
I hope you bought them all drinks the next day.
How else are you going to piss on a random stranger without getting arrested for it?
I knowww but it feels so good to be tipsy 
Honestly of all the piss stories, this type of shit is way worse. Easier to understand getting drunk and pissing yourself but have some respect. At least go “take a shower” or some shit
You should have tried audibly retching lmao
There’s not been a single story of an American pissing on people in this thread…I’ll always cop to our issues but pissing on random people doesn’t seem to be one of them.
I hate to defend my people but honestly most of the Americans I’ve met in hostels were pretty well behaved compared to the Brits and Australians. Prob because it’s so expensive for us to travel?
Not sure where you've stayed but in my experience it's always the Brits.
That’s very extra 🤣
Been a while since I’ve read so much on one thread
You absolutely get to complain. You don’t get to act shocked.
Umm what lol. Staying at a hostel doesn’t mean you lose all dignity and respect as a human. There’s a very clear line. Getting pissed on crosses it by a mile.
I was in wake up in Sydney where an American guy had a box of goon. We piled stuff on top of him when he passed out and then liquid started flowing onto an Scottish guy below. We thought he must have lay on the other goon box so we moved him to another bed! He did it again! Turns out he pissed himself twice and soaked through 4 beds 😂
Lol why did the fire department have to show up?? 🤣🤣
Do these men actually think it’s like offering a dog treat to a dog? 

Like “here, girl, come on, here’s some penis! Come and get it” ???
I've had a few thirsty girls request a DP .
They heard something about a pole
Depending on how the call came through dispatch (due to the SA implications) EMS could have been dispatched. You only get a minimal amount of information when a tone comes through. With the majority of Fire Department calls typically being EMS calls this could make sense.
Yeah. Fire Departments often are the EMS personnel and randomly shaking your dick at strangers is a mental issue.
to extinguish the (small) italian fire
[https://youtu.be/qbZ4rzWbUdA?si=lfeJNi3Ce87Ot9Fw](https://youtu.be/qbZ4rzWbUdA?si=lfeJNi3Ce87Ot9Fw)
Haha no they let him put his clothes back on and pack his suitcase!
Having visited them, they're seemingly good at a lot of things!
I’m not a fan of hostels, but honestly if bullshit like this gets handled swiftly like in her story, they don’t sound half bad.
Yea just waving it around while laying on his top bunk! I think maybe he took some drugs or got really drunk then came back and thought showing us all his junk was a normal next step for the evening. 

Also glad it was handled well! Apparently they take that stuff very seriously in Amsterdam. We were glad to not have to worry about being exposed to any additional waving willies
Always the worst when the ladder doesn’t actually go down to the ground and you have to take an initial very large step to get to the first rung and even worse when you’re drunk and in the dark
I can relate. I never watched Titanic until the night before my first cruise…
Bad idea!
....That pee accusation makes me angry by proxy.  Gets a free big spoon, pisses on you, then blames you.  What's this world coming to??
How are all these stories not sexual assault as men are touching you without consent or flashing their parts lewdly? 

Girls shouldn’t live in mixed dorms to avoid this situation. You really never know which guy is decent and which guy is a creep. Don’t take chances.
To be fair, Agua de Valencia is deceivingly strong
Hahahaha lol that’s fucked up, as if she wanted to get pissed on.
Maybe she’s the woman they were referring to
Probably our future prime minister we’re talking about here too.
Most sober Australian traveler
Excuse me! We are perpetually disgraced at home too!
That’s gold!
Unironically the most chivalrous thing anyone has ever done in a hostel. Dudes a sweetheart.
I hope you have already realized that you have a thing for shit/piss. 
Are you're not giving us that story?
Johnny depp, is that you
Gotta draw the line somewhere
That was a beautiful story, but I believe we also deserve to read that other part hahah
Yeah like fully enclosed from all side except the side of access where there is usually a curtain. I too vastly prefer these setups because of the privacy.
Not capsule hotels, I’ve been in one too. Those beehive-like ones do:

If you look at the double bunk from the head’s side: One wall at the right connecting both beds, with a ladder on its back. And then another wall at the left for the upper bed. Like this:

```
|_
 _|\
```

_ = bed, | = wall, \ = ladder.

That way you have one entrance on each side, and they both have privacy. Then it gets stacked like this:

```
|_    |_    |_    |_    |_
 _|\   _|\   _|\   _|\   _|\
```

Theoretically there is a diagonal view line, but in practice it didn’t matter. And in OPs hostel, there were even curtains, it seems like.

It’s a very cheap way to provide a lot of privacy.
The capsule hotel I stayed at separated men and women.

The guys were all in one sleeping area  and the women were in a separate sleeping area. Each person needed an access key to get into the sleeping area.
sleeping pods
Hopefully
Search 'capsule hotel'. It's very similar to that
I guess they mean the beds are not perfectly lined on top of each other ?
Leave it as he found it. 


Other than the covered in piss bit.
It's a basic courtesy
He didnt flush though
The guy was really drunk.

Lots of young guys heavy drinking in Australian dorms...it was a real party place!
In 1994 they did not
Yeah tell that to R Kelly
Maybe I'm the odd one out here but if I don't have a locker I just throw my bags into my bed and sleep with them by my side. And if I'm gone for the day the curtain is pulled over.
Up is ok. The down is the tough part. I’d like a handhold rope attached to the ceiling, then I would be fine.
> Honestly about 10-15 years ago when they were still cheap as chips it was worth the risk for the odd bad experience

Had some random dude jump on my hostel bed and start to tickle me. But on the other hand, it was £7 a night in Edinburgh...
People do Hostel so they can travel because they can’t afford to travel if they had to book regular rooms

Everywhere I’ve gone, a hostel bed is a fraction of a regular room

Except 1990 Java, Indonesia
Same here, I was backpacking in 08/09 time frame. Hostels we’re cheap and a private room in hostels weren’t horribly expensive. I agree, now the prices for hostels I’m better checking airbnbs and booking.com for other options.
They're still a lot cheaper, especially in Europe and the experience is still almost always normal. I stayed in hostels 100 odd days last year and nothing particularly weird happened (in the dorms).

Actually once in Turkey a 300 pound guy got confused and tried to climb into my friend's bunk, got startled by her sleeping in what he thought was his bed, and fell from the top bunk onto the floor, and just slept there on the floor. Bizarre but harmless except waking everyone up.
Yeah he usually gets shit on instead.
sometimes you have to just ask
[deleted]
I’m not sure whether to upvote this or downvote this, so I’ll just reply, lol. That’s ****WILD****
That’s a little weird but in no way did that hurt you.
Getting urine all over you and your sheets and your belongings is an entirely different level of affront. 
that happened once in my freshman year college dorm lol, nowhere is safe
That's why I never stay in hostels - I snore!

However, I do camp in my own tent, but people are a bit further away, and the acoustic is quite different with open air.
Now that’s a pain in the ass
I'll pee on you, you deserve to experience all that there is in this life at least once!  We can even take turns if you're down
I missed the "fight" part and thought "fisting someone got snoring is a bit extreme"
That is a terror for me. I stayed in one in Berkeley, SF Bay Area, California, that had diatomaceous earth at the bottom of every leg of the bed. I asked in the morning.
Then I immediately left. I lucked out.
Almost all hostels have a choice of all female dorms
There are hostels that are for girls only, and only under a certain age (like 30)
Exactly
I've slept in so many rooms with people I didn't know or "trust" and I only have good stories to share. I now just trust people til they break it. Majority of people in this world are good and many are great. I've also hitch hiked all over the world and only a few sketchy stories all being in the United States- none I didn't walk away from.
I am much older and I just love the Australian hostels. But I’ve never been in one that is out of bounds.
I’ve  stayed at SameSun and they have more activities , mostly daily, allow alcohol, and have a friendly group in the common area.
That never spilled over to my room.
YMMD
Hostile = hostel. I love it.
Well, we're not afraid of an hour drive.  We also don't like kids running wild.
Mixed dorms are the worst, but there's rarely an option for male only dorms. 
Most I've been in have a single-room option (although you have to buy two beds). $60 a night is pretty competitive. I'm poor, want to travel and will sometimes choose a hostel to stay in... UK, Scotland, Italy, France, Spain and then Amsterdam
True. Trying to think of a hostel where I didn’t encounter a friendly Aussie
Too much ket possibly? Overuse can damage the bladder.
How do you know you were spiked?
I think you can be forgiven for that one. I hope it turned out okay for you.
Not really, I have something called self-control. I know my limits and simply stop drinking before I get to the point that I confuse someone’s bed for a toilet. Also some people simply can handle their liquor while others really can’t.
We were all fine with it in the end. We had all drank the night before and he cleaned it up in the morning.  Just another funny travelling story.
Turnabout is fair play.
I got up, turned my phone back on and texted my friend who was in the top bunk but she was sleeping. He left and went back to his space. I was likely too tired, young, naive and went to sleep. Only not so great experience I’ve had but it’s burned in my mind.
😂 different indeed
Would certainly not be opposed to this had I invited him.
Very normal German behavior, I think. 😂
Hell Yeah. Thank you! The was the most sound advice I’ve ever heard on Reddit! Dudes into WS…. HMU.
Exactly.
Exactly.
[Genuinely](https://ifunny.co/picture/the-laaaaads-610f61-keith-is-typing-the-irish-lads-i-dOV8L4Pt8)
Sorry obv missed a very important word. They had bed bugs.  It was really gross.
Hell yeah!
She started pissing too to assert dominance
I briefly confronted him. I had no choice because I had to leave, and then I hurried down to reception to let them know what was going on. They found the whole thing hilarious, and thankfully the man left peacefully. It was 9am too on a weekday lol
Ah really? I guess it’s just a U.K. term then lol
    I come from a land down under
    Where beer does flow and men chunder
    Can't you hear, can't you hear the thunder?
    You better run, you better take cover, yeah
That would’ve been the right thing to do but instead I darted for the airport before most of them woke up & sat there in shame for 18 hours (my flight wasn’t until late in the evening). 

I was so incredibly hungover though that I honestly didn’t have the bandwidth to deal with the situation? I think I had alcohol poisoning it was so bad, even at the airport I spent the whole day throwing up & couldn’t hold anything down for 2 days
K you do have a point there
I think it’s because Americans don’t generally drink at the level of Europeans lol. Bars here close at 2am. 
True. I guess it depends on the age group and locales. 

Spain had the most rowdy Brits.
It was hilarious 😂
If it wasn't clear enough, I was making fun of the ardent hostel defenders saying you don't get to complain about hostel conditions since you subject yourself to anything and everything in shared accommodations
I think shock at being pissed on by a stranger is completely warranted, wtf??
This is fair.
[deleted]
Spray him with cold water?
to show him the real hose
They wanted to have a laugh too, not gonna blame them for it
To prevent the gun go on fire 🤔🔥
Or a hose.
No, he was Italian, not a Pole
Not in Amsterdam though. EMS and firebrigade are separate organizations.
Ems is the ambulance right? In Netherlands ambulance and firefighters are not combined.
Well at least they did that. But if they banned him from every hotel/hostel this means he had to leave Amsterdam, unless if he stayed in an airbnb or on the street.
It was handled well but I don’t wanna have to experience that ever
Well.. some girls are pervs as well. In Rotterdam a girl undressed in front of me when I just woke up. She just said "Hi", and took her clothes off while looking at me. 

I mean, It didn't ruin my day or so.. but still, I wouldn't even consider doing the same thing.
I learned this the hard way in the middle of the afternoon and was not good at hiding it.
No it's not fair, and anyone using alcohol as an excuse to be a degenerate is a cunt
Bruh I’ve had every kind of strong liquor under the sun and never once pissed the bed in a hostel or anywhere for that matter.  Even when blackout drunk.  No excuse whatsoever
Lol, solid explanation
What is agua de valencia
Oi! Mista Prime Ministah!…Andy!
*Golden* *
I don’t seek it out. It seeks me
wish this was more common
Ohhh thank you!
LA has a couple of "pod" hostels too
I believe it’s one of the first things they teach you in finishing school.
Yea I remember my party hostel days. Never boring that’s for sure. Oh to be young, when sleep means nothing to you.
I’m glad I didn’t meet the Edinburgh Tickler when I stayed at a hostel there.
They're not cheap as they were. 

It's around 50 euros a night for a dorm bed in my city. 

Before I lived here on a previous visit it was around 15.
the old Cleveland Steamer
Where did you stay in a 20 bed dorm!? Was it full?
In Vietnam? Could have been me! Nine years ago. Not proud of it tho…
No manners but lots of positions probably
The Generator in London. It would of been interesting to know who was that entitled. So disgusting . The whole point of hostels is people cooperating to make a cheap stay. Some rich entitled shit shitting on it
Most people that stay in hostels bring ear plugs, snoring isn't a big deal
I mean... it would be rude not to reciprocate.
Is that a breeding ground for bedbugs? I have a diatomaceous bath mat 😭
As a women I could never share my personal space with a random man/men. Women yes…
The severity of my intoxication did not match how much I'd actually drank and situation and symptoms match a typical experience of getting roofied. Another friend at the party experienced the same thing.
>I have something called self-control. I know my limits

I blacked out tons of times when I was still drinking. Not once did I piss anywhere other than the toilet.
Forget about bed bugs now I also have to worry about getting bed germans. It's always the germans. Why
Damn
Yeah, maybe. I’m American, and don’t often have to look words up, so I’m guessing it might be, lol.
Least alcoholic Brit
Nope! If you stay in a hostel you willingly consent to paying the pee price. /s
That makes sense. You have my vote.
[removed]
They are in the US too but I’m sure that Firefighters are also trained medically as well. There really aren’t enough fires for firefighters to go on so they go on medical calls as well.
Same reason as my original comment. Just switch the genders. 

Mixed dorms are just a disaster waiting to happen. 

No amount of fun or new friend is worth the potential of SA, robbery, etc.
Do you really think I was actually trying to justify it?
You will get the boot
You mean you haven't met him yet
Ooooh, this is exciting, we have a connection 🤣
As a man, me too.
Understandable. I suspect your reasoning for same sex dorms is different to mine though. For me I just want to avoid being in a room with a couple, which is far less likely in a same sex dorm. I'm guessing for you the risk of a creepy guy climbing into your bed is the main put off.
Damn. It's happened to me too. All the best
Same, back in my 20s when I was going fairly hard, I never made a mess despite gaps in my memory. Trust me, the lads would've let me know otherwise.
Leave it to Germans to invade. Privacy, beds, countries, whatever they please
Lol a bed German is exactly what he was.
Was it those old school macbooks that look like toilet seats?
No they are split in Netherlands. In big city's there are fire fighters on duty round the clock. In smaller places they have other jobs and just huel ass to the station if there is a fire.
I’ll be honoured to partake in one of your proudest traditions 
There is still time!! 😂
🥰
😂😂😂
I went to a bar by myself for the first time and I loved it
I am currently traveling in Japan solo and I recently met another interesting (very confident) traveler at a  previous hostel who shared his life experience about how he became extroverted and adopted a "don't give a f" attitude. Basically, it all boils down to exposure therapy and he told me to have more experiences in life by challenging myself. And challenging myself I did (I have another story to tell where I went out with an older woman than me, something that was a mental block in my life, as I've always been told to go out with women younger than me).

So I am in Osaka right now, contemplating going to a bar alone. This thought was daunting, but I felt I needed to do this. Initially, I chickened out and bought a drink from a supermarket to have in my hotel room. When I got back and drank half of the bottle while playing music, I realized how lame that was. Why not have the experience I wanted at a bar in freaking Japan?

Summoning all my courage, I took a shower, dressed up myself and walked outside. I walked around in Osaka, saw several bars on Google maps, but did not have the courage to walk in. I decided to head back to my hotel. But then I decided to just walk into a bar. I checked out the bar and decided the vibe wasn't right. I checked out another bar a few streets down the line (on a fifth floor/speakeasy vibe) and it was empty. There was another group of people but they were in a separate room hence we didn't have interaction. I decided to go in.

I just wanted to say that this was excellent exposure therapy. I sat at the bar counter by myself. I was just being myself, played a bit on my phone / responded to some messages, chatted with the bartender who was very friendly with broken English, and enjoyed some jazz music and amazing cocktail. I had a great time and it was a relaxing and enjoyable experience. I am also very proud of myself.

I am going to do this again tomorrow, but I will try to find a bar with more people so I can strike up conversations with strangers next to me
The "I have anxiety, I can't make friends" solo travelers do not want to read this haha. Good on you OP. It's not so bad!
Right on - socialize if you want, or don't, nothing wrong with sitting at a bar or restaurant by yourself and reflecting or planning the next part of your trip.  If you aren't naturally an extrovert, don't chase it, unless that's something you really desire.  Just be yourself - whatever that looks like.  Either way, you'll leave with a little more confidence than you had walking in, and that builds over time.  Respect for the Japan solo trip - it's top on my list for my next 'big' one.
My dad owns a pub and everyone goes there alone. Then they all talk to each other, it's completely normal. Some doesn't want to talk so they just read the newspaper.
I love going for a drink by myself.

Find a nice bar/pub that has a good view outside or if with weathers nice sit out there and people watch.

I’m not sure if you live in England or not but my favourite place is a small bar in the west end of London. Crazy/drunk people all over the place and it is way more entertaining than anything you can watch on your phone lol 

Last summer I went and sat at the same table in the  sun from 3pm until 11pm when I had to get my train home. Best day out I’ve had in years
Good stuff.

Keep the mojo going.
I felt pretty much the same as you on my first solo trip, walked past a bunch of bars at first not having the courage to go in. 

Then I thought: "Fuck it, it's gotta be better than just going back to the hotel and even if it sucks I can still leave."

It didn't suck. I even met some cool people that night and gained some confidence. Since then I've also been getting more interested in the whole wide world of craft beer, so I've done it many more times, sometimes meeting people and sometimes not. 

Visiting all those fantastic craft beer bars in Copenhagen or going to all kinds of pubs in London and just soaking in the atmosphere with a nice beer are some of my favorite travel memories.

I fucking love going to bars alone now and also no longer have a problem with dining alone. I remember feeling VERY awkward doing that the first few times.
I'm pretty sure this doesn't apply to you OP, but in case someone reading this is gay, I decided once a few years ago to go to a gay bar in Tokyo. Used Google to find one not too far from my hotel. At the door was an older man. I asked him if gaijin were allowed, and he said yes.  Then he asked my first name and did I speak Japanese.  He took me inside, led me to a barstool in between some local guys who all spoke English and introduced me to them.  It was seriously nice, and I had a nice chat with them.
Solo traveler here coming to Osaka today from Tokyo. Let’s rage!
We need more uplifting, encouraging and realistic posts like this. Lately I've been reading too many "is it normal to do XYZ" yea man, it's normal, do whatever you want. Stop second guessing everything you do. Go out of your comfort zone, nobody gives a f\*\*\*. Cheers from another solo traveler in Osaka right now!
If you want some bar reccs or to link up with other travelers hit up the japan discord. It’s pinned on the japan travel sub. Osaka’s a great city for meeting people. 
Good for you!! It takes a lot of effort but it's sooooo worth it. I'm also an introverted person, and I only recently had the confidence to go to an actual sit down restaurant by myself. But I've been pushing myself a bit more since then. Yesterday, I actually went to a pub by myself and ended up striking a conversation with a couple in the queue and we chatted the entire time I was there. It felt like such an achievement and also felt great to learn more about the city I'm visiting. And usually I just bring a book with me so I'm not sitting there just staring at my phone haha
That’s great to hear and I’m proud of you. Remember, most people at bars are probably looking to talk to people like you anyways so keep that in the back of your mind. I have done this solo bar hopping a lot in Asia and have always ended up making new friends. One of my really good friends now for almost 8 years, he’s a US expat in Japan - I met him alone at a random bar in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia and we’ve been friends ever since. I even went to Japan a few years after that and we got to hang out. Now meeting him in Thailand in a few weeks!

Here’s a tip and something I do as well: take a couple shots before you head out in search of a bar. That little bit of liquid courage can help.

Cheers and enjoy!
Thats awesome to hear. I just took my first solo trip last week, it was just to the opposite side of the US, so there were no language barriers or anything for me. 

Regardless, while I’m not a social idiot, it takes a lot out of me to talk to random people in an unfamiliar place, but I ended up having so much fun and each day met new groups of people Id hang with the rest of the nights.

I don’t think I’ll ever become a super extroverted person, but the exposure therapy idea is very real. It’s pretty crazy how fast doors open up to you when you just say “fuck it”.
let me hear the other story dude
Beautiful, we’ve just witnessed the birth of an alcoholic
I loved the bars when I was in Japan! A few were for locals only but it seemed easy enough to check out the vibe of a place before entering. Some really amazing themed bars in Tokyo I would recommend if you end up there? I never actually visited Osaka.
Question.. What is it that terrified you about going to a bar solo in the first place?

I have a couple of friends who wouldn't go to a bar alone, sit in a Cafe or even go to a restaurant & dine in alone - I still can't wrap my head around it.
Amazing for you! I never could do that…. Super impressed. Great job putting yourself in a mentally tough and uncomfortable situation. Coming out better for it. Not giving up and moving forward! I have a situation coming up in a few days which would take me out of my comfort zone (going someplace solo that I never would go before.) I have a laundry list of why I can’t do it and why not to do it. But you’ve given me a little bit of motivation!!
OSAKA’S STANDING BARS FTW. I used to go to Nonkiya all the f time to eat their doteyaki and beers with Japanese grandpas and grandmas. Such fun timessssss
I had the exact same thing in Seattle in the winter! there was a taco place <10 mins walk from where I was staying that I wanted to go to, and when I saw that they delivered I nearly just ordered to my hotel. And then I was like no no, you should go. And I started getting dressed to go (this was January so I was layering up) and twice more I neatly bailed. And when I got there I asked for a spot for one and they almost turned me away and then that very moment a couple left from the bar and they said I could sit there. and then the guy behind me also was on his own and sat next to me and we had a bit of a chat and watched whatever game was on the TV and it was SO fun and I've never been more glad I did something for myself!!
Love this story bro - feel like I have been through this exact scenario before. You do this a few times and sometimes you meet amazing people, sometimes you end up having a chill right by yourself. As long as you’re comfortable with either option then you can’t lose
I started going to the bar by myself. I just don’t give a fuck what people think. I just want my beer and to relax and listen to live music after work
That's amazing! 

Now do solo sento/onsen. Nothing like being completely naked by yourself with strangers.

Then try a solo reservation at a nice restaurant. I say "Nope, just me" when asked if I'm waiting for anyone. No one seems to ever care or give it a second thought.
Good for you!!! Great to read this story!
Osaka has a lot of expat bars if you want to meet people; can’t remember the names rn but I went to a rock bar (fine), video game bar (immediately met cool people), and a karaoke bar (met a Japanese guy at this place who took me out bar-hopping in Tokyo later that week)
You've made going to a bar sound like proposing to your long term girlfriend....

Redditors can be very odd
Good job glad you enjoyed it. Sometimes you just have to stop thinking and just do it x
If you have any interest in videogames go to PC and Retro bar spacestatiom, you can play retro games while you drink.


If not, er.. well have fun anyway.
Love this - I’m planning to travel Japan for a couple weeks and would love to hear your itinerary
Awesome share. In travelling I met the same type of person, but much less cerebral apparently. Instead of advice, we travelled together and did spontaneous [sometimes stupid] stuff for months. I do believe the distinction between extrovert and introvert is malleable now. He was the definition of Idagf and now I find myself able to walk up to strangers in public and just start random conversations(!)
What solo travel is all about.
Japan had some of the BEST bars in the WORLD! They are so passionate about their craft. You should definitely enjoy it. Not for anyone else bur for yourself. Good for you. Keep pushing yourself little by little
Bro realized he had free will… hahahah no seriously though good on you for pushing yourself through an uncomfortable scenario! I agree just don’t give a F about what others think because most times those people are just as awkward and lonely.
That's how I started as an introverted solo traveler, now I do it all the time in all places every time I travel. This year alone you would've been able to find me alone in a bar in China, Taiwan, Vietnam, Hong Kong and South Korea. And every place I never endes up alone at the end of the evening. 

It keeps on being a bit daunting, but it will get better and it will make you so much more social. You'll get there!
Congratulations on doing what is incredibly common by others. 

Now try talking to randoms. Ask them open ended questions, learn to read body language and learn social etiquette
Fortune favors the bold! Good for you. You have nothing to lose
Great for you. I solo traveled a lot in my 30s  but used internations, couschsurfing  and meetup.com social events to meet others.

Had some wild times eg went to Romania, met loads of interesting people, had some romance, went to some wild parties and weird art bars with some artie typesI would never have met otherwise, with people alI met on couchsurfing. 

Being a solo traveller doesn't mean being alone,but I could do what I wanted eg visit places in the day alone. Sometimes I just met people at random,  especially other solo travellers - and in some countries people are very friendly in restaurants or bars. Or eat / drink alone, who cares. Cafes are particularly nice alone with a book.

Keep building up that confidence as it's a great life skill.
I’m proud of you!
One of the best travel experiences I had was in Tokyo in the late 90s, before the Internet was really big, back when it was all dial-up and AOL and stuff. They had English-speaking cafes, where Japanese people would go to practice their English with native English speakers in a sort of cultural exchange. 

Now, with the Internet, I'm betting that kind of wholesome experience is no longer, or at least, much much rarer. But I went back then and it was great! Talked with a lot of people. One of the people there was some lady, about my age (I was around and I am female), and we got on well. She said she had the next day off and invited to show me around the town. It was great! She had a car and took me to a lot of out-of-the-way places. Terrific time.
Going out to new interesting bars alone in different cities is my absolute FAVORITE part of solo travel
Good for you!! Putting yourself in an uncomfortable position and growing from it! This is how it's done great job!
Good on you, OP. I just started going to bars myself this year since a good friend is a bartender and I thought itd be less weird if I had someone to talk to that wasn’t necessarily with me. Since then I’ve seen how normal and unthreatening it is - highly recommend doing it for anyone looking to make friends, or even just to be and feel present in the world, home or abroad.
As soon as you dip your toe int the water, diving in doesn't seem so bad! Good on you
This is like, my thing when I solo travel. Except in the past I let it get out of hand and would end up meeting people and going on some random crazy drunken adventures and sometimes making really dumb decisions. I’m a little out of practice at the moment since I haven’t been traveling, but I just tried again last weekend! It’s definitely like, a skill. And it can really be a cool experience - I have chatted to some very cool and interesting people while at bars alone. Good job and have fun! I support this haha
Awesome. Congrats.
I did this at a Yakitori place in Chiba, when I was living there. 

Felt really good, even got a place with two yakitoris for free and had a great chat with some bartenders and an older couple. 

Keep doing your best!
I went to a bar in Shinjuku Ni-Chome alone on my birthday. Watched go go boys performed on stage, drank two drinks and went out. I don't go to bars coz I don't like crowded places and loud noises, but it was a fun experience. At least got to tick some boxes on my checklist that night.

Honestly, I would love to do a more relaxed bar hopping experience next time, and in Japan I like the culture of minding your own business so in a way it fits me well. I still would love to reach conversation level of Japanese so next time it won't be so awkward in interactions.

edit: congrats OP!
Trust me! It gets sooo much easier. I started iff doing that in my local city, then during trips, and now I really enjoy it. Bring a book, bring a journal, or just sit and enjoy the drink
I think you have to pick your bar carefully. When i was in Mexico there were a couple of bars - La Faena in Mexico City and Salon de la Fama in Oaxaca - that were quite chilled and you could go and sit down, watch the world go by, enjoy a drink. I had nice chats over the weeks I was there with some people who decided to say hello when they saw me on my own. I really enjoyed going to these bars on a friday evening to unwind.

I was in Vietnam earlier this summer and tried out a few bars. I found one that had a cover band on Fridays and was pretty chilled and I quite liked going there. I tried another one that was almost like a nightclub vibe which was wholly unsuitable for going for a drink on my own. When a friend of mine was in town for a couple of days we went there for a night out and it was great fun but really not suitable for what I like when I'm going for a drink on my own. 

Whenever I go somewhere I always google articles about the best bars in the city so I can pick a place to go for a nice drink at the end of the  week. A lot of these articles are geared towards a very different market - cocktail bars, rooftop lounges, nightclubs - so I usually have to read through a few of the articles to find ones that sound like my kind of place
The world is your oyster. Enjoy!
Doing things solo is so often the best way to do things. Well done 👍
Was in Osaka/Tokyo last week.
Twice I went alone and met people, first time was with japanese which was a very rare opportunity and I’m absolutely happy about it !!
If your stay is extended,  try to become a regular at a bar...this is when the locals open up and networking becomes natural ...from there, you start  to feel like you are embedded in the local culture and no longer a tourist.   I ended up doing this for 5 years straight.
Yes great! I was that way too before

* find bars that are better suited for meeting new people
* find events to meet people (that aren't necessarily in a bar)
* initiating a conversation is more important than having something substantial to say
Posts like this make me so glad I spent years working shitty jobs in hospitality - I never feel shy or awkward going into a bar or restaurant alone!
Advice for people who don't drink?
Just watch your drink.  Never leave your drink unattended. I’m not trying to give you anxiety or worry you, but just be mindful of your drink. Don’t let anyone slip you something while you’re traveling.
good on ya! Seems like something I would feel as well. Im gonna do what you did OP on my next solo trip
Great work! You pushed yourself and changed your circumstances, you should be proud of yourself. Keep it up!
I love this. Try maybe some bars with trivia nights or game nights so you will have more interactions
Heck yeah! Good for you ^_^
If you have some downtime you should check out the movie “The Night is Short, Walk on Girl!”  It’s an anime film, it’s on netflix.  Or the book it is based on is also good, I think you will appreciate it 😁
i’ve been traveling alone for years (i’m 22) now that i can drink at bars here in the states i do it all the time alone. I’m comfortable being alone,either not saying a word or chatting it up with the person near me about whatever’s on TV. When I was in europe i would go up to anyone that spoke english and just start talking to them and then i made good friends that way.
This is my standard when I travel alone. I go almost every night to a bar alone. Sometimes the vibe is just right, too. Good music, maybe there's a game on a tv or something, good drinks
Iv always gone out solo to places in my area (West Palm Beach, FL) or while on vacation or traveling , I love it. I don’t need to go with someone to go out, and I don’t mind meeting others where i am at but I also like the idea of being somewhere where no one knows me
If I go to a bar, out for a drink alone, I'm not solo very long if I don't wanna be ☺️. I love it
I was told a long time ago ...
Someday all you will have is your stories...most people have few stories...you already have more than most
I went to a casino by myself for the first time and I loved it
Inspiring story. I’ve been wanting to check out Japan before. This might be the extra nudge :)
woo great achievement! hoping i could do this too! for now im still very shy haha
japan is a nice country to travel to. glad to know you have a nice experience there.

if you need some financial tips, r/ExpatFinanceTips [ ](https://www.reddit.com/r/ExpatFinanceTips/)can be useful
I think traveling solo for a awhile you develop confidence. I was so shy when I started. But I figured if I wait for someone to come with me to travel or join me for a tour, I’d wait forever. After couple of countries, I go out eat by myself breakfast, lunch, and dinner. I go alone to sight see site or book a tour alone. I have a cocktail while eating dinner and just relax at my pace. Depending on the night, I scope out how I feel. Sometimes I feel tired and not in the mood to socialize. I chalk it up to a rest day and watch a movie in my room. If I’m feeling in the mood to party I think “ I got to make friends somehow.” So either i chat up people at the hostel or just talk to strangers in the bar while having a drink.
What a great post.
Nice! I also feel like Japan is the best place to do this since some places there isn't much interaction. But when I travel I usually go to micobeweries or craft pubs solo. Did this just recently in Oslo and made a crap ton of friends. And some people will just strike up conversation, which is cool. And you can just have an encounter for the night with no expectations that it needs to carry on with the rest of your trip.
I go t bars solo at home and abroad. It’s the best. Keep it up.
Just read thorough and I hope I do something like this when I go, I am very shy and very reserved and have a 2 week trip in Japan, osaka, Kyoto, nara, nagano, Tokyo. 

I super looking forward to it and also feeling super anxious and nervous.  I don’t go out much in my own country so hopefully the language barrier will help me just go out and like you said you don’t even have to interact too much but I just overthink a bit much,  I keep telling myself I will be fine once I do it tho. 

Sorry for the ramble I didn’t even explain or say much in what I wrote but o well. 

Glad you were able to built the courage.
Must be great being male and travelling.
I went out alone many a time in Spain, Portugal and France. This may be a major move in the right direction for you, but this isn’t special or an accomplishment on a grand scale, you must now make friends with people language you don’t share and get laid
I mean, it’s sad as well because it’s a self fulfilling prophecy for sure. If you’re always second guessing yourself it’s gonna come across that way to people (who are more perceptive than we give them credit for) and that’s a pretty good way to repel.

Truly, it is liberating to just let go of everything, clear your head and say ‘fuck it, whatever happens, I’m in charge of how I act, and feel about however it turns out.’

Exposure therapy is definitely real. As a wise man once said, ‘yoloswag420mydawg’.
I can relate so hard that it's like I'm reading my own diary lmao
Just the sort of person I like to see in bars I'm in lol Minding their own business, good social boundaries. Hope you left a good review 
>nothing wrong with sitting at a bar or restaurant by yourself and reflecting or planning the next part of your trip. If you aren't naturally an extrovert, don't chase it, unless that's something you really desire.

My problem is this IS what I want, but I'm naturally the sit-quietly-and-drink type and I have no idea how to approach people in a bar setting. Every time I try to figure something out I feel like I'd be effectively grabbing a chair at someone else's table at a restaurant.
it's funny that I confidently do this all over the world but was somehow intimidated to do it in my hometown, NYC. Well I found a nice local bar near me in queens and started going there and every time I go I end up making buddies for the night and all the staff know me now,
Love this! Which bar in London? Hoping to do another London trip next year
Which bar?
Hey! I’m going to Copenhagen very soon for a few days. Which craft beer places did you like?
Do you happen to remember which bar?
This.
What a daft, naive and judgemental comment. The 'birth of an alcoholic' is always trauma - all alcoholics have a very fucking good reason for drinking, even if it's not immediately apparent. They also tend not to sit around in bougie bars drinking expensive cocktails, unless they're very rich. How would I know? Perhaps I'm a bartender of 30 years experience...
They're trapped in their bubble world thinking about what others will think of them. There's 8 billion people in the world, nobody will remember them a few minutes after they left.
[deleted]
What is one supposed to do in the sento/onsen? Sorry, I'm off to Google too 


Hmm sounds tricky navigate lol
What's wrong with going to bars as a female? I do it all the time when travelling. 
What a buzzkill
> As a wise man once said, ‘yoloswag420mydawg’.

...how did he find out my password?
I'm joking around. I was referencing when this sub was 90% "I don't talk to anyone and spend all my time in the dorm and on my phone, I avoid groups and when people go out I don't go, why can't I make friends?"
So fucking tired of the "I have anxiety" excuse for every reason why people suck
Ha, took me a while, but at age 38 and having traveled quite a bit, solo or otherwise, don’t think much about walking in any joint by myself now. Journaling, messing with my camera gear, staring at the neon sign on the wall for 15 minutes, all good options.
Minding my biz. So mind your own biz.
Maybe start with the bartender, and work your way out from there, usually what I do if I’m feeling a social mood coming on while traveling solo.  In my experience, others find solo travelers pretty interesting, so just talk about what you’re up to if no other topics present themselves.  If you do approach someone and they aren’t into conversation, just read the room and let it go and try somewhere/someone else.
Taphouse is good
Oh boy, there's so many. Happy to name you some of my favourites though, so here we go:

Anarkist Bar at Tivoli (cozy bar right at the amusement park, also serve a decent pizza)

WarPigs Brewpub (a must if you like BBQ, nice outdoor seating area)

Mikkeller & Friends Stefansgade (any of the Mikkeller bars are fine really, but this one is my favourite as I really liked the area it's in, also 40 beers on tap)

Væeskebalancen Blågåndsgade (another cozy little bar with a nice outdoor area in the middle of a not too lively street, the staff also really know their beer)

Taphouse (60 beers on tap! Plus I really liked the vibe there late at night)

La Neta (a great Mikkeller owned mexican restaurant and bar, there's 2 of them, but they're both good, I like the one in Vesterbro a little more though)

BRUS (kind of your typical modern craft beer bar, but with a very nice outdoor area)

Fermentoren (very atmospheric inside, but also has a fantastic outdoor area, very packed most of the time)

Just writing about this makes me miss that city so much, hope you'll have just as good of a time as me and cheers to some hopefully great beers!
The comment above was a joke.
You'd think a 30 year bartender would have developed a sense of humor
I am an introvert and do it. Its not complicated, I am hungry, I need to eat, I go to a restaurant, I eat. Or I need  caffeine, I go to a café, I have a coffe. 

Bars I don't do because I don't like drinking, but its the same logic.
Or socially anxious?
They're one of my favorite things about Japan! I've been to do many of them, from amazing super sentos (which can be huge, and have state of the art massage chairs available, along with scrubs and normal massage and tons of jacuzzis and pools and are spectacular) to tiny mom and pop neighborhood sentos with almost all locals. 

You go in, take off your shoes, then go in the gender segregated area and take off your clothes, take a shower (gotta try the sitting shower which feels quite different the first time!) then you rotate between the hot and cold tubs. During the scorching Japanese summer, hanging in one of those cold tubs is a special kind of paradise. At a local super sento in Hiroshima I even got to watch a baseball game with the locals on the tv.

One onsen I went to on the Izu peninsula was amazing outdoors mixed gender (in bathing suits) and had hot pools next to a cold river. All this was at the end of an amazing seven waterfall hike. 

Another Onsen in Dogashima was on a dramatic cliff side near a beach. The view while soaking was amazing. Entry was about $3.

I could go on and on lol.
Because he’s wise, duh!
😂
Anybody else still think about a one night stand you had while traveling?
Met this British girl on the beach in Mexico a few weeks ago and we instantly hit it off. Spent much of the day together and then I went out drinking with her and a big group of her friends+some other people we met. Ended up back at my hotel and we slept together and it was kinda… amazing? I know it was just a one night stand but I really felt connected to her, the next morning we just laid in bed for hours cuddling and talking about our lives and *not sleeping*. Unfortunately both of us had to fly back home later that day so we went out separate ways. I’ve had casual sex before but this was something else but I can’t quite explain it. Hopefully I get over it soon though haha 
I had a similar experience with a German girl. We tried to keep in touch and it ruined the magic a little - I learned a valuable lesson after that. Some people only come into your life for a moment and thats okay. I never saw her again but it was one of the best times of my life (we spent 4 days together). She took me to the airport when I left Germany and she gave me a lighter from her purse because she wanted to send me with something and that's all she had. It was sort of her way of being funny. I still have that lighter and the shot glass we drank from the night we met. Every once in a while I flick the lighter to see if there's still a flame. Last I checked it was still working.
You'll remember that the rest of your life. It will always be sweet.
Ah yes. There was one nightstand I remember fondly. Solid mahogany construction. Aligned perfectly with the bed. Had a lovely lamp and built in phone charger. 
Yup still think about her sometimes 10 years later. I think part of the allure is the fact we didn't have the chance to get annoyed by each other
Travel flings always stay with you
A guy I met at a hostel in gerogia in 2004. Never even exchanged real names. True hippie stuff. He kissed me under the soft sunlight and old pine trees. I'll never forget him. I hope he is doing well 20 years on.
Before Sunrise syndrome. It’s beautiful.
[deleted]
Yup.. 1997. New Zealand and again (same person) in Oz. Think about her all the time!
Limerence forms with great ease on the traveler's path.
Met a super hot Argentinian pro tennis player 12 years my junior in Mendoza. He invited me to play tennis at his club, then we went back to my hotel and made love all night. Definitely in my top 3 sex experiences. He added me on social media the next day and he still keeps in touch, so I think he enjoyed it too.
I don't understand how my posts related to solo travel don't get approved but stuff like this does lol.
Me right now. I met someone a week ago while traveling solo in Rome. We met at a bar and talked all night until the bar closed. Then we just walked around the city until 6-6:30 am. Then we kissed outside the Vatican. I stayed back and watched the sunrise and climbed the dome (a mistake) and he went home. 

We exchanged IGs and I was supposed to meet him the next night but I was so exhausted. I took a nap and didn’t wake up until 10pm and he had already made plans for the night 

He replied to a couple of my stories since then. I’m moving to London in a couple months and hope I get to go back to Rome and see him again. I haven’t liked a guy this much in a while. Maybe it’s just a travel thing but for now, I’m enjoying this long distance crush feeling
Still to this day. Miss her dearly. But also, the moment was a bit idealistic at times, and I know it wouldn't have been good for us moving forward. 

But yeah, so far it's been the best sex I've had, and the moment we spent together felt straight out of a movie. 

Miss those days :(.
I had something similar in Brazil for a few days. Never slept together, but had some cute moments. Staying up until 3am on the beach drinking beers and chatting absolute shite, great little memories.
It's wonderful when we as humans, experience that sort of connection. It's magical and for me, defines life as being something so worthwhile.
Absolutely have been there.  You didn't exchange information at all?
You should watch Before Sunrise
I've actually never met anyone while travelling & had a one night stand but it's always been something I've wanted to do
yes, I was 36 backpack traveling in France and I met a 11/10 blonde, 27 blonde woman from Paris at a music festival in the south.    
At first I was hanging out with her guy friend she was with but then he left so I asked her if I could stay with her for her next destination and she said yes immediately.  
 I was kind of surprised as she was world class while I was just some random average Joe.  
 We hitch-hiked together to another friend of hers who let us sleep (in our new big tent we had just found) in their backyard near the pool.   
After a week of fun in sun we hitch-hiked again to see a beach and that's when I was finally comfortable enough to tell her I wanted her.   
She wasn't surprised and told me I could've slept with her the very first night we met if I had made a move.   
I'm still riding that high 9 years later lol.
I think more about the opportunities for one night stands that I didn't take because I have too many skeletons in my closet that would come out if I went missing after hooking up with some hot but shady guy and I turned into a true crime phenomena. I want friends and family to find out I was not at all who they thought I was when I die quietly of seemingly natural causes, not when some witty girls with a true crime podcast decide to start digging and Netflix decides to turn it into a 3-part series for the world to see.
Ukrainian guy on the beach (and in the ocean, in my bungalow both shower and bed…) of Cambodia. Never caught his name. Worst UTI of my life but WORTH IT. 
I was 17, she was a bit older? I came from the US, she came from Argentina and we met in Lima, Peru. We were with our group, we made eye contact and simply walked towards each other; talked for years, laughed for months, fucked for days and kissed for hours (not literally) we were in each other's presence for a mere 3 days but 20 years later I think about her. She was kind, bright, patient, and always smiled and unlike anyone I have met since, that smile was what caught my eyes and she said I looked like a scared puppy which is what caught her attention. Before we parted ways she asked me to look her in the eyes and to remember that moment forever, she would do the same. The last thing I remember is a tear forming in her left eye and a crooked smile. 

Life has a way to give to you and quickly take it away but those experiences are what shapes us. I learned to smile constantly, be generous at all times, to feed your curiosity and that no one keeps tabs so just do the right thing, it doesn't take much.
absolutely. Those two German dudes at defcon? I can't pronounce their names but I'll remember their c*cks till the dementia melts my long term memory .
We went on a 2 weeks long “date” traveling together & now we’re married a few years later!
100% yes! Totally relate to this. Met a Kiwi pilot in Florida in 2016 and then visited him in NZ when I lived in Sydney. He is one of the best people I've ever met and sees life so differently than me. It will never work out but I won't forget him and his accent.. Such amazing memories together! But that's life
Great memory. Put it on the shelf and enjoy it.
I still have fond memories of an American guy I met in Australia years ago. I was clear in my mind that there would be no relationship with him; definitely an experience I remembered long after. Agree with the comments to cherish the memory but not get emotionally wrapped up with it.
Had almost the same experience with a boy in Puerto Rico. Happy (in my case) to say that I did NOT get over it, and we’ll be celebrating one year together next month… 

Watch out for those travel romances - they’ll get you! :)
sigh I remember all the one night stands I almost had while traveling but fucked it up somehow or another
A few weeks ago is like no time at all. I think about women I hooked up with in the Clinton administration.
It is very special in every way, in whatever way you want to look at it (I did at the time and still do). 

Last year was my very first one (as it was my first time travelling alone without friends and/family).

Reflecting back on it, we both knew the circumstances and never got back in touch with each other again.
It’s part of the magic of solo traveling. Little memories of people that had a brief, but special moment in your life
I had a week long one on a cruise. We added each other on Facebook. Thought about her occasionally. Then posts with her name appeared in my feed, and I found out she was killed in a car crash. 

Fuckin sucks.
Had this with a German guy on Crete. He was working at the hostel I was staying at and we went out with some other employees and guests. Just a bit of flirting and sharing cigarettes while talking about our travels and the fact we met the same people in Athens. Got back to the hostel, I went upstairs to shower and it didn’t take long before he came to join me. The next morning, I got us some breakfast and we hung out in his room until I had to leave.
I always think about a girl I met in Niagara Falls, we both missed the bus back to Toronto and ended up spending the afternoon/evening together. Just chatted but I regret not getting her contact details, not because I saw a potential relationship but for friendship and see how she got on with her travels. We were even from the same country just literally the other side to each other.
I met a girl from Oxford (I’m from London) in Thailand. We stayed in contact and we both flew to Lao to see each other. She’s invited me to her family holiday in summer. I’m going home in a couple of days and she’s travelling for another 1.5 months.
We said we’d want to see each other when back, hopefully Cornwall works out!
Yeah, because her boyfriend, whom I had no idea existed, buzzed the next morning that he would be there in 5 minutes..... as he was moving her to Texas.... so they could get married..... (this happened in Chicago).

I put my clothes on in the stairwell and walked down at least 25 floors.
fuck all these comments make me want to go on a trip
[deleted]
I think experiences like this remind us of what could be, and that we should never settle because there can be amazing people out there for us!
I fell in love one night in Italy. 

I booked a tour around Rome with an Italian guy. He later admitted he almost cancelled because I was the only one who booked.

But we got along so well.

When the tour was over he asked if I just wanted to keep hanging out. And I did.

We ate pizza and I drank wine (he wouldn’t drink bc he had to drive). He took me on basically a second tour, but more of a “locals” experience. It was like a movie montage. Us going into wine distilleries through the back, getting the best pizza free from his friend’s shop that I would never have seen on Google, showing me an underground wine cellar from the I think 30s?

I was staying in Naples and planned to take the train back that night. He said that was too dangerous so he offered to drive me all the way back to Naples. I accepted. 

We listened to music on the way there, sang together and pointed out shapes in clouds.

We were underneath the light of a full moon the whole drive back. And I know this sounds completely insane, but the clouds made the shape of a heart in front of the moon like a cartoon. He pointed it out to me.

In the streets of Naples, they were selling bouquets for “woman’s day.” He stopped the car abruptly and told me not to look, came back with a bouquet of roses. “Happy woman’s day.” He told me.

We got to my hotel and he walked me to my room, it was up 5 flights of stairs, the lift was out of order. We got to the top and said goodbye. But then he leaned in for a kiss. And we couldn’t stop kissing. It was hot and passionate. 

We had sex in my room for hours. And I couldn’t stop moaning. And some old Italian ladies kept cursing us out in Italian. 😂 but we just laughed and laughed. 

In the morning, he grabbed me to cuddle. He said “you and me, we are like cat.”

It felt magical. But when I got home, it just felt like a dream. And I was sad that I find it so hard to capture that kind of magic with anyone I’m dating. 

Traveler’s depression.
Take it from someone who thought that if I had that connection once I can have it again and if it’s meant to be, we will cross paths again, I think you may regret you never tried to make things work.
I once met someone while out somewhere (keeping it generic for privacy reasons)…it was so romantic. We made out near the river and he looked so beautiful in the moonlight. He picked me flowers that I still have in a book hidden away. We stayed up all night talking about life and other things after. We swapped numbers and kept up for a few months after but he lived too far away.
I met a girl in Brazil. I went home. A year after that we are living together. If it felt special it probably could be, you just have to decide if you want that right now. 
Only because he gave me a UTI… 😖
I'm not the proudest to admit it but I slept with five girls in six nights when traveling with my friend after college. Most notable was having sex in one of the clubs bathrooms in mykonos and a long ass line of people hammering on the door for us to open up. So we had the walk of shame until finishing on the sidewalk probably 100ft past the club.
I had a one night stand with a Russian girl after Oktoberfest. Ended up seeing her 2 more times in the years following, in Prague where she lives and travelling around a little bit. And we are still friends today!
Look at me, I’m young, hot, and have sex with foreigners in exotic lands.
You gotta let people know you fuck while traveling solo. Then you can ask real questions.
Yeah, I ended up marrying the guy. 😊
Plan a trip together ?
I have a funny story to tell! 10 years ago in 2024 I was first time abroad in Thailand & I met a Finnish dude who was working for a travel agency there. We hit it off and spent the night doing pubcrawl until 4am, when we decides to go to his hotel room for the last drink. Of course we hooked up, and the next morning I had to leave early so all I remembered was his last name & did not know anything else about him 🤣 We lost touch after that. Sometimes I thought about him because it was my first trip abroad so it was kinda special. 

4 years later I went to Finland for an exchange semester, and out of boredom I asked a local social platform, describing what I remembered about this guy, and I found him there, it was ridiculous. 

We did meet again after that, but the feeling was not there anymore. So we just stayed friends. Sometimes, I think it’s better to keep the nice memories there and not try to distort it,  so that we can smile when we think about it
I had a kinda similar experience, but I was the local, not the traveler.

So I met this guy that was outed of the place he was sleeping in and had one day where he had no place to crush on.  
We met, we got along super well, we went to the beach and had dinner together (he paid even when I offered to do so) and we went to my house where we slept together and was amazing.

I had to get out the next morning super early and was about to go in a trip with some friends and he had other places to go and be.  
I still think about him, his face, his smile, his laugh... A shame we live in different continents.
Yes, with a Russian girl in Thailand 6 years ago.
Imagine having sex
If you guys like this, you’ll appreciate the Before Sunrise/Sunset movies
The more you travel the more this happens... its magical out there...
10 years ago, met a very nice German guy in Berlin. Hung out a few times, ended up back at his place but we didn’t sleep together (I was a virgin at the time and he respected that) so we just cuddled all night. It was magical. I’m back in Germany this week and hoping maybe just maybe we can reconnect. Wish me luck 🤞
The only two times I’ve been with a woman has been when I was traveling. They both chose to sleep with me for the same reasons: The first was I’m simple (what you see is what you get) and the second was I was just there. I’m not complaining, of course.
Maybe shes your soulmate.
I've asked questions in this sub about my solo trip through Northern India and the Himalayas, which never got approved because it was too vague. But this stuff is approved  😅
Still occasionally think of an experience like this. It was 17 years ago 😆 
It’s like that scene in Groundhog Day where Phil is reminiscing about the girl he met in the Virgin Islands
Yesssss, now we talk everyday and try to see each other every few months . Not sure if it’ll lead into anything we both have no expectations but things have been going so well almost a year later . Fingers crossed 🤞🏽
How do you guys even have one night stands? Personally I have never had it or even imagined having sex with some random but I can imagine myself getting attached to that person.
Yup. We keep in touch here and there on Instagram, but haven't seen each other since. Im so lame and do at times feel like if we lived in the same country, we'd be married and having the best sex of our lives like that night lmao, but alas I'll never know.
Strange seeing this post as I’m currently in London and met a random girl at a pub in Mayfair. After a few drinks we went back to her flat and had sex. We kissed goodbye and that’s that.
I think about the one night stand i didnt have while i didnt travel.
All the time !!   This German girl travelling across Canada. We met where she had picked up a temporary gig at an independent coffee shop. We hung out a few times and fell in love. I never in my life had my soul connect with someone like her. We had no story, no strings attached, we were both living the moment.  We had the best romantic moments together. We had to split as we had different destinations. To this day (2 yrs afterwards) still think about each other even we have moved on to be with other partners back in our respective countries…     Love as a nomad is amazing ❤️
Yes. She was really cute, so flirty and had this really amazing uplifting and positive energy. She was 🥵😍 too 

We were both just laughing a lot and talking and it was such a good time. 

I had to go to the airport and she also kinda saved my ass. The app I was using (a local version of something like uber), the driver came but then suddenly said nah they can't go to the airport. There's no way to cancel rides... so kinda shitty but other than that, the app was good. I couldn't figure out how to contact support. 

She was able to order a ride to come pick me up. I would've been in a bind if she didn't, because I was running a little behind spending time with her lol.
I feel you bro. Matched with an expat Scottish girl living in Dubai last year, instant chemistry and both hoped and said we would love to see each other again when I left. 

I fortunately got to come back to Dubai last week through work, and ended up spending 4 nights together. Having to say goodbye again was crushingly bittersweet. Like, if we both lived in the same country, I legit think we’d be together. 

Sadly she doesn’t see herself leaving as her life there is pretty sweet, and I just don’t think I’d up and leave my whole life in London for Dubai.. life is cruel..
Ever wonder who thinks about you in that way?
I do. All the time. It wasnt a ONS and I wasnt the one traveling, it was him. 10+ yrs ago I used to live in a tropical island on the Caribbean and we had tourists hang out where the locals hang *all the time*. I remember it was the end of summer and college was to start the following Monday so it was the last weekend we had to hang out freely. I remember it was such a boring night. Me and my bff at the time where at this bar we used to frequent  and on this particular night it was super empty which wasnt the norm. We even had time to chat with the bartenders for a bit. Anyways, there was a bachelorette party of sorts next to us (we were at the bar) and they were bar crawling and had ordered a bottle of champagne and had left it empty along with an ice bucket next to me. This was a MardiGrass themed bar so they had bead necklaces all around. I was so bored that I started mindlessly picking up the stranded beads next to me on the bar top and tossed them into the ice bucket. All of a sudden out of the corner of my eye I see someone reach into the bucket and toss the beads next to me again. I thought it was someone drunk being annoying so I just grabbed them without looking and tossed them back in. Well this guy suddenly said (with the sexiest accent) “I like your flower” (I had a flower hairclip) and when I looked to see who said this, Im met with piercieng light blue eyes and blond hair with a model like face (clearly a tourist. Us locals usually have tans and darker eyes/hair) I said thanks and started chatting with him. I was star-struck because this guy looked straight out of a magazine.

We made out, talked & danced all night. My friend got to do the same with his buddy. They were Australian Marines and were staying at our port. We ended up making out under the rain (straight out of a romcom) lol We were supposed to meet that Sunday but a storm was “coming” (it never did! 😡) and they had to leave so we never got to meet again. We did exchange FB and phone numbers/Skype and he reached out for my bday at one time as well but lost contact over time and he ended up deleting his fb. I haven’t heard from him since. To this day I still wonder how he’s doing.
wHy iS tHiS pOsT aLloWeD? God, Reddit is so embarrassing sometimes with it's brigades of sex-phobic puritans. Absolutely romantic flings and casual sex are part of solo travel. IMO it's the BEST part of solo travel and usually the difference maker between a merely good trip and a great and unforgettable one. It's also the best and fastest cure for loneliness on the road. And unironically the best kind of cultural exchange. 

Some of y'all could stand to benefit from learning a little game and opening your heart to the world. 

If you're not interested in the topic, move to the next post!
I have a buddy who had a one night stand in Cancun. They ended up reconnecting a little while later and after six years of dating got married and now have four kids. Some things are just meant to be.
Yeah man same here once I was in Vietnam. It’s hard to let go sometimes especially at the end of the journey. It seems like the girl embody the spirit of the journey itself and went she goes then all your trip is ended as well 😂
Yes, the one I remember the most was with a german guy while traveling solo in Australia, he was amazing, we went for some drinks, talk for a while, we went back to his place, took a shower, had an amazing experience and after that he ordered food for both of us, we cuddled after. Loved it, and he did raised some bars to my standards in certain things ;)
Met a guy on a cruise. He was so into me and I thought he was kinda cute and somewhat charming. Then I found him on Instagram when I got home and he had a girlfriend and I realized he was actually ugly and not cute at all. 😂 never again
Lol
I still think about the time I was almost assaulted in Turkey unfortunately
See, I can’t relate to these other comments at all

You guys are getting any amount of interest from girls while travelling?
[deleted]
As a woman I’m very cautious when it comes to dating when on vacation, especially solo. 

I’m extremely glad I followed my gut and didn’t do anything with the cute guy who worked at my hotel in Costa Rica … only after I politely turned him down he told me about his recent ex who was a stripper… this was over 10 years ago and I still shudder thinking about the possible STDs this guy was likely carrying (especially as I assume I’m one of a gazillion women he has hit on at the hotel). 

Even with someone who I get good vibes from, being that I’m not a one stand type of person, I’d be reluctant to start anything… unless they actually live near where I do. However, stranger things have happened so I will never say never. Realistically though it is highly unlikely- especially because I will never move far away from my small but close family.
She may be the one? Did you at least get some contact details and if so, why not stay in touch to see if anything more could happen?
I stayed at a chalet in Switzerland. There was a British guy who worked there I hit it off with. We talked and made out under the moonlight. We got drunk and fucked on his single bed in his shared accommodations.
Yeah, I still think about, it was great experience for me and as I believe for her as well. We kept in touch after that, hope to meet her again.
Yes
Your story sounds like the movie Before Sunrise
Yes. I've had 2 and hated the fact that was it on both. Clearly I'm not made for one night stands but the problem is when travelling I'm more likely to be social and meeting other people for it to happen. Yet having sex with someone makes me want to love them forever and I hate I'll never see them again so it sucks so bad
that is so sweet
i still think about that irish guy i met in milan. didn’t hook up with him, just made out and still.
I worked on a beach resort for three years, 

I remember each and every one and will always absolutely treasure all the memories I made on that tropical beach. Best time of my life.
Yes! Some great times.
Can't say I've felt the same (just answering the question) but more power to you
Yup, one night stand while skiing in France. Asian guy I met my last night. He was nice, meh sex but better than no story at all.
Oh.  I think about it all the time.  Precious memory.  I am 87 YO.
Wow this sounds so sweet though
Oh man, hope you either find her or go through that again. Life sometimes is really simply that great. Enjoy the butterflies in the tummy and keep chasing the silverlining!!!
I was in Budapest and saw this girl from across the karaoke bar giving me the "come over here and kiss me" eyes while I was drinking a beer and she was talking to her friend. I walked over and slowly put my hand on her cheek and around the back of her head and kissed her while her friends kept talking. We ended up at her place (she was Hungarian and lived 3 blocks away) and I remember we got McDonald's, and before I left, she was still in bed. We were talking and before she fell asleep, I was stroking her hair. Sometimes I think about how she grabbed my hands and said "you're so gentle"
This sounds like something from a movie, I couldn't imagine anything like this actually being possible for me irl.
I did this and we stayed in context for nearly 2 years and traveled together a few times. I called it off with him last week because it was the most painful love I’ve ever experienced
[deleted]
[deleted]
I met two people on a trip that married someone they met on the trip. One of the couples I witnessed being into eachother.
It’s been more than a year and I still think about it not only because the sex was amazing but also all the conversations we had and the way he just held me all night (while snoring like a truck lol)
I just assumed everyone has a mental highlight reel for when they get old, do y'all not have one??
1996, Rome. Met in Trastevere. Was just like the film Before Sunrise…
did you exchange numbers or anything?

never happened to me. but i want a solo trip fling. 😩
Yes. Didn’t even have sex with him but had a nice chat over dinner and he insinuated he didn’t have to work the next day (he was a local) and we should do something. At that point I got super shy and was like “get me outta here” in my mind. Total self sabotage. I know his name and where he works, if he even still works there. It kills me sometimes.
Mine was an Italian guy in Taiwan. It was like a “birthday sex” for me. To tick of my bucketlist. We hike the elephant mountain at night and it was a nice experience, went to his place after. He was very nice and we still keep in touch on instagram.
Met this guy in Germany a few weeks ago, spent 3 days together, connected so deeply and felt so strangely comfortable and safe around him. Was really sad to leave him, been trying to text a little but not consistent. I think I should stop trying to text him for it’s a few days until he responds and think I should let it be, if it’s meant to be it’ll be. Both need to live our whole lives across the world. Does anyone have advice on how to break off the texting even though it hasn’t really been reciprocated heavy? Don’t want to ghost.
You guys are having sex?
Hopefully you got her info so y’all can keep in touch. Chemistry is chemistry no matter how long or short lived
I had two trip romances with my travels. With one we parted ways and we still remain friends to this day and have seen each other. With the other we tried to do long distance and he ended up leaving me for another girl, and I never got to see him again. I still think of both very fondly, but I wish I would’ve just stayed friends with the second. Trip romances can be fun but they’re fleeting and not always sustainable unless there’s a mutual agreement.
I truly feel like I connect more with people who don't live anywhere near my area lol I've had one night stands like this, Ill never forget this guy I met who was visiting from Louisiana ... He came into the shop I worked at and we instantly connected. I shot my shot and we ended up going out and had the most amazing time ever. The interesting thing is he's younger than me, which I normally don't go for but it really just goes to show, age is just a number. He had to go back home 2 days later unfortunately 💔 I still think about him.
I had so many stories like this when I travelled but I never hooked up but felt real connection with them 
I wish to meet them again
Is this sub filled with teenagers?
Met a woman 60 yo, I was 60 also.  We spent the entire night together. Last time, I went more that once, but I will be she had at least 20. She was incredible!  Unfortunately I fell asleep at my meeting the next day.  Should have had some Adderall. LOL
Maybe. Which one?
Similar experience. Met a girl while on a work trip in Israel. I stayed a little longer than my co workers and made it a proper vacation out of it. I met her on okcupid and we went out for some drinks a night and the next day I went back to her place in the morning where she gave me a massage 😎 and one thing led to another. 

It was really magical though lol. Sex was good but she was a bit off. We stayed in touch for a few weeks after I got back to the States but then we lost touch.
Honestly, not really unless I’m asked a question like this. Definitely had some amazing ONS hookups, and it’s an extra thrill to already be vibing on the adventure of travel, but the ones I really connected with were the ones I kept in touch with or had more than a moment with.

I will say though that one would have bugged me like the one you described. We had an amazing night, she had plans already in place and left the next day. But we traded contact info. I emailed her, but she didn’t respond. I was confused because we really had an intense connection and she seemed so genuine. But I was letting it go.

Ran into her randomly about 2-3 weeks later, in the street 100+ miles away (met in Koh Chang, 2nd time was on a street in Chiang Mai- Thailand), turns out my email went to her spam folder and when we reconnected, we fell in love, traveled SE Asia together, I visited her in the US, and we traveled together again to the Caribbean. One of the major loves of my life.

Oh okay now that you got me thinking, there was this French girl. Though she was the traveler, staying with me as a couch surfer at my place in Big Sur, CA. I still hope to visit her in south of France someday, we are connected on FB but don’t talk.
No, I don’t have one night stands, I don’t find pleasure in them
The one and only time I had a threesome it was a one night stand in Australia.

Still think about it from time to time.

They were both from the UK.

Truly unforgettable experience.

It has been 15 years.
The reason as you can see int he comments is that these are people that could potentially be relationship but sue to circumstances you can’t really explore that  and because you can’t explore it you put them Ina sort of pedestal of what if . In reality  the likelihood is you would have got them and maybe it would ahve fizzed out . In happens without travel all the time .
I went to Mexico and met this girl she was different we hit it off perfect and it was the next day to go home she ended up deleting all her social media so I lost contact with her and 4 years later I ran into her at a club out of nowhere and started right back like we were in Mexico again lol and now we keep in touch all the time I always say keep in touch no matter what if your about it be about it lol
Sweet memories, and I visit them often. There’s something special about meeting someone and having the night of your life and then letting it go. I’ve had many like them, but one specifically hits me hard thinking back.

I met a girl in Hawaii when I was stopping through for a couple days. We met up at the hotel and drank and talked for hours, when the sun went down we went to the beach and fucked around on the beach and in the ocean for awhile before heading back to my room. We continued to drink and talk for another several hours. She was a free spirit, and a beautiful human inside and out. She stayed the night and in the morning we ordered food to my room and ate and laid there for who knows how long before saying goodbye. I could’ve laid there with her forever. In that moment, she was perfect. And in that moment, I felt something real. Now it’s just a beautiful memory.
On the same boat. I love reading this comments. I think the reason we all feel so intensely about this person we met abroad it is exactly because it was just one time thing, and keeping in touch would ruin the magic - making it a reality. I still think about the guy, it was one of the most romantic moments of my life, when I was lying there in his arms listening to the sound of the ocean I made the snapshot of that moment, knowing, it is just this moment and embraced the temporality of this moment. It was special for both of us, it is bitter sweet but I wouldn’t want it to end up any other way.
My daughter met a guy in Italy this summer and they had a one night stand. Since then they’ve texted every day and he’s really leaned on about how beautiful she is, etc.
Now he’s trying to set up a meeting in Scotland at a gorgeous hotel that he can get a really good deal at. I’m getting concerned that we live in America and how would we ever find her? If this was some kind of nefarious situation . if he wants to see her again I think he should come to LA where we can make sure everything is safe. He seems very charming in his text, but how can you know?
I still do its been since 2017. I was traveling and met this beautiful 18 year old Native American woman on an app. I was 36 so double her age. I was passing through and ask if we can meet up she said yes. I was so surprised. I went over to her mom's small old 2 bedroom trailer house around 10:30pm and just talking on the couch. Then we cuddle for a little then she got up and put her hand out and I grab her hand. She lead me to her small room and we made love. She told me to hurry up as her mom was going to be home soon before midnight.  So I did and cummed inside her. It was a lot about 2 weeks worth of cum. She was mad and thought I was going to pull out. Then she got up and got dress, so did I and both of us was going to the door. I turn around to see her one last time and she look sad. I gave her a hug and said are you ok. She was about to cry and said what will i do if I got pregnant. My mom will kick me out. I said every will be ok. Then I kiss her 1 last time as we hug for the final minute.  Then I open the door and left and never looked back.  I got in my truck and left. I only knew her for about an 1 hour and a half or less. The next day I went back to the app and she deleted her account. I was so sad as I didn't know what will happen.  Years later in 2020. I found her on Facebook and see her pics. She looks more beautiful and has a 2 year old daughter. I wonder if her daughter is mine as the age and the birth would be the time when I saw her. Now 2024 I still look at her profile and see her daughter growing up and wondering she is probably my daughter as she doesn't have any pics of any husband or guy. Just her and her daughter.  I decided to leave it be and move on but still seeing how our daughter grows up.
THIS! i legit thought I was the only person who experienced a “solo fling” if even that? This past summer, I went to Cape Cod/Hyannis, Massachusetts by myself. Mind you, this was my very first time traveling alone; technically it was my 2nd time traveling in my entire life. I’m 28 years old and it was my freaking 2nd time traveling 😭 anyways, on my last night in town I decided to go out to some bar and have a couple drinks. I didn’t talk to anyone the entire time, just kept ordering drinks. As i was leaving, this really hot dude approached me and it turns out he was sitting next to his friend who was sitting right next to me. Funny thing was, i thought he was super cute but i didnt bother approaching him because i didnt have the balls to. 🤣Back to when i was about to leave, he was trying to make conversation with me and asked me about my drink and if i was leaving. I told him, yes, but i was gonna go to a different bar. I told him where i was going and if he and his friend wanted to follow, he was more than welcome to. So they did. We ended up hanging out all night at the bar. We had fun, played pool and flirted. It got late and The bar was closing. We didnt really want to stop hanging out, so he decided to drive us to the beach and we sat in the lifeguard’s tower and just hung out there. We kissed/made out and had some conversations about ourselves. We ended up back to my hotel and had sex. I didnt want him to leave but he had to because apparently he had to go to work the “next” day. Looking back, im not sure if it was true or he just wanted out? He asked me for my number and promised to call me the next day before i leave for my trip back home. He never contacted me, unfortunately. Oh, and not to mention, he was also traveling, but he is from there. He is currently living in Florida. There’s more to this story but basically, it sucks because i cannot remember his or his friend’s names for the life of me. I didnt think to ask for his number, either. So ive literally spent an entire evening with this dude and it was hands down one of the best nights ive ever had in my 28 years of being alive, and that was it. Never saw him again. I don’t know why but it kind of stings and why am I still thinking about him? Even though we barley knew each other and didnt spend enough time to form feelings for each other?! Wild. Now that i’m back to reality and i’m like blah. And the crazy thing was, it felt like i was in a movie too 😭
Trans man here,I was 19  in Thailand and met a wonderful trans lady who showed me around all the great local non touristy spots the whole day. Ended up having sex from 6pm to 6am, completely exhausted the next day, we did a repeat the next day. I still think of it many years later. I told my family I was just out partying.
I had multiple ones and I remember most of them with pleasure. Never knew their names. I think it's quite common
I don’t really think of anyone that I’m not currently sleeping with. I barely even remember what it felt like to have slept with someone. Most times it feels like I imagined it.
the only time i ever had a one night stand was while traveling.  we vibbed, i knew it was a deadend geographically, so i just let myself go and had a GREAT night.  Still think about it often but dont have any contact with him
i remember them all <3
I will never understand people who have one night stands/casual sex. For the woman, it shows that she is promiscuous, for the man, it shows the same. And what is the point of it? (Not to mention the dangers of having sex with a stranger, from the more common ones like STD to the less common ones, like stumbling upon a dangerous individual).

And then what? Do years pass, you get an actual partner and children and then fondly remember your one night stand? (I am sure your partner would be thrilled to learn that /sarc). I don't understand.
I was in Thailand and I met a girl at a bar and we're having a few drinks and making out. We went back to my hotel and she was telling me how her boyfriend who she lives with cheats on her. So I made sure after we were done I gave her a bunch of hickeys on her neck. She also had to be at work at 9:00 a.m. and she left my place at 4:00 am. 

I always wondered what happened the next day.
yikes.
sounds like sweet memories!
There's a certain beauty to letting beautiful experiences become memories and just that. I have a fond one of a German girl I spent a few days with in Maui. Funnily, we both discussed purposefully _not_ keeping in touch (not following each other on social media) and letting this amazing time become just a memory we think back on fondly. Just like the old days before the ubiquity of the internet. I don't regret it.
Poetic. I hope that flame never goes out
I like the story but can't get over the fact...

 "Here's a lighter"- peak German humor
sometimes the best stories have no ending and the most impactful art is based in sadness
I’m glad that lighter wasn’t confiscated at the airport.. this is so cute
>Every once in a while I flick the lighter to see if there's still a flame. Last I checked it was still working.

Damming. Yoo this shit was hard
Idk why this made me cry. Thank you.
Loved this, thank you for sharing
Incredible story.
Those damn Germans. They somehow wiggle their way into your heart and never leave. 💔❤️‍🩹
Go flick it one time for us 🫶
[removed]
why keeping in touch ruined it??
😂
lmao 💀💀
I teach English and am lmao.
Does it still hurt you?
Hope you're not married
Sometimes in good ways. Sometimes in ways that you need to see a doctor about.
Even after you get married? Just curious
Wow this is sweet
Oh wow. I guess you really will always remember certain people no matter how much time has passed. There was this foreign exchange student from Spain, when I was a freshman in high school and I absolutely lost my mind when I saw him but I never had the nerve to contact him until after he left. I got his email and I messaged him on MSN chat and he always seemed to log off when I’d go to school at around 7am (I live on the west coast) but he did say to me once that he would like to get to know me but at 17, I don’t think he was interested in having a long distance relationship with me when I was 16.
I have never heard this phrase…what does it mean?
I love this
Same happened. Going back to see her in Germany in a month! She definitely knows I’m obsessed w her (I told her in those words) so we’ll see what happens. But we’ve been watching movies once or twice a week together online and pretty much texting nonstop
In the same boat right now, met a guy in Florida a few days ago. Hung out all night, talked literally till the sun came up. Didn't have sex but did some *other things*. Trying to forget about it and not make It that deep>!😖 but I keep thinking about him. !<
‘97? How hard was it for you all to reconnect??
Why didn’t u marry here
“Limerence”. TIL a new word!
How to get over it quickly?
Schwartzman? 😍
He liked to serve "Love"

womp womp
[deleted]
This sub is hilarious to be honest. I came also looking for genuine tips as well but it’s mostly stuff like this. I didn’t know one night stands were this deep lol
Fr, you can tell the age group of this subreddit by these type of posts. I just stick with specific country subreddits or r/travel for actual recommendations.
It’s actually a huge detriment to the quality of the sub, it is ridiculous to me how many posts on a solo travel sub are directly related to romance.
I remember getting my post modded essentially saying "I'll be in Prague for a week in July. Looking for suggestions on half-day trips (leave early morning, back bay early afternoon) I can do besides Kutna Hora".

In the future, I'll be sure to phrase it "I'm sad I don't have any half-day trips I can do from Prague. Does anyone else feel this way??" so it'll be approved.
There was a post a few weeks ago asking if they can leave the hostel before the check out time 😂
Yep. I posted a perfectly reasonable question about doing Xochimilco solo, reworded it multiple times, and it got rejected multiple times for the most arbitrary of reasons lmao.
Hey man me either. This is my third post but the first one to get approved. I also posted about places I was going, how long I was being there and taking recommendations on what to do as a solo traveler but they didn’t get approved
Mod note: Taking a look at recent post history from you, which posts were removed by mods here? 

It can be a bummer to see negative feedback - in my experience the vast majority of posts we remove are from people who haven’t read subreddit rules 9 and 10. That is, people asking for advice without taking any time to provide specific info about their budget, itinerary, or specific travel interests. 

As frustrating as it is to have posts removed, I suspect it would be more frustrating for everyone to have to read the literally dozens of daily “what is there to do in Paris” posts with no further info provided on the person’s interests. What makes it through is the tip of the iceberg and most of that iceberg is the same repetitive vague questions many times a day.

A lot of posts related to hooking up when traveling get removed under our “no sex tourism” rule but this one felt like it wasn’t really about sex tourism. 

Anyway, constructive feedback is welcome. Try to be nice though, we’re a volunteer team, and  as much as people complain about types of posts they don’t like, those posts are often a pretty small fraction of the top feed in the subreddit for the day.
I'll piggyback off this too. Since Seire A is taking their time to confirm matches, I'll be spending 5 days in Milan to be sure to be there for it and I'm a bit worried that I'll get bored in those 5 days
Mod here. Can you modmail us some links of posts that don't get approved? The posts I can see in your account history are all approved.
Welcome to Reddit as a whole.
Lmaooo
Looks like an emily in paris [Rome] type of date
Classic Brazil! :)

Every night spent on the beach is unique, you part ways and then never see each other.
Sometimes, it's better this way.


 I exchanged emails with mine. He ended up being divorced twice with a kid in each marriage. Which isn't necessarily bad except the kids were born in the same year. And of course none of this came up in our night and day of passion.
just to add to this...I exchanged info and we connected on LI, of all places.  While we have never seen each other after that night, I love how I get that memory back when I see him come across my feed.
Tequila Sunrise
Ala Rob Schneider 'You can do it'😁
So did you sleep together?
[deleted]
Do you want to elaborate?
The post I was waiting for since the very beginning of reading this Reddit😍😍
hold up i hooked up with a kiwi pilot last week 🤔
Condoms?
I didn’t even realize that was the magic I’ve been looking for/needing. I’ve been almost 2 years out of my last serious relationship and the entire time have been dating around but nothing felt right. With this British girl, I felt the magic that I hadn’t felt since the first time I fell in love with my last girlfriend. Hopefully we can find that magic again and capture it forever
When did you know he was going to fuck you, on the road to Naples or during the tours in Rome?
Been there.. still remember trying to explain my symptoms at the pharmacy 😳
Alex I will take “things that did not happen for $800 please”
This is why I still go out when I’m alone and don’t even feel like it. Sometimes, you are that guy.
What do you expect the mods to do when they’ve only got one free hand?
What happened?
Probably because they generate a lot more traffic than your average solo travel question…
Why not? It’s part of the experience, mostly you don’t meet your travel flings again. It happens very often with solo traveling as you are prone to meet new people than when you travel in a group.
Meeting new people, including flings, can be part of the experience of traveling alone for some. Generally I try to flag these posts with the "relationships" flair so people can easily skip posts they don't want to read.
[deleted]
All it takes is the right person. That was my first time ever having sleeping with someone I just met that day. The casual sex I had before that was always with people I knew from other friends/school/work. It did feel like a movie.
Quite true. Sorry that happened to you but hey at least you found out and weren’t kept in the blind 10,15,20 years later
Well I was the only guy in the group of 9 of us and I invited all of them to my hotel room to hang out. Then they all left but she decided to stay. I like to think I did a good job of making everyone feel comfortable, her with me and her friends with leaving her with me
Exchanged instagrams but haven’t been texting regularly
That’s a long way of writing that nobody wants to have sex with you.
The memories are a reminder of how sweet life can be every once in a while.
Man these German girls really are something else. I met a German couchsurfer over ten years ago surfing in my neighborhood and we exchanged emails really last minute right before she left. We've kept in touch since and she is probably my most valued friendship now.
It was really emotional at that moment too.. I started to cry and then she started to cry and that's when she gave it to me. It really broke the tension and we were both able to laugh it off 🤣 what a beautiful soul she was
Me too, friend. Me too.
No problem! I've thought about writing a book because I have lots of stories like this. Maybe someday.
I’m glad to see this actually though because sometimes I’m like damn why did they leave such a good gift before departing but I’ve learned to understand it now
I definitely feel some emotions about it but I don't think hurt or pain is really one of them. Some combination of admiration, nostalgia, and appreciation is probably closer
Was just thinking the same thing
I'll report back after! I'm single, so that might also be a factor.
It’s not really a standard idiom. I was referring to the film Before Sunrise from 1992-ish, about two young people who meet on a train in Europe while traveling and agree to spend their layover night in Vienna together. They walk and talk and fall in love, and part in the morning with an agreement to meet up again in the future. There are two more films in the series (no spoilers).
I wouldn’t recommend coming off obsessive/desperate. She knows you’re interested when you told her you’d be going back in a month and made plans to see her. Good luck.
Her *
There's even a r/limerence 😊
Quickly? I don’t think so. With time maybe. Some people are saying they still think about the person after 20 years. I still thought about mine after 10.
Could also be del Potro!
> Was removed for being “low effort”.

Mods are all horny =/
⚰️⚰️⚰️
If you still want an answer to this i would definitely say pick berlin! Food is better and cheaper and it does not smell like weed everywhere 🤣
Personally I’d go for Amsterdam, but if you’re into raving Berlin might be the better call
Probably because this is more interesting than a generic opinions between 2 places post where all your answers can be found with google and far better than the few people that happen to comment on reddit
The mods must’ve been feeling a bit spicy that day lol
Amsterdam everytime, Berlin is a fucking shithole.
Except if you're into raving but you cant do that 24/7 either.
Lmao, the mods on this sub are definitely horny af.
I know I'm old when I see posts like "my mom doesn't want me going to London alone" or "does anyone else get nervous before a trip?"

I have to deal with bullshit at work all week so going somewhere for the weekend is my way of escaping reality for a bit so nervousness is the last thing I feel.

Anyways, I find the Flyertalk forums to be far more interesting. It's usually frequent fliers and airplane nerds who go from Los Angeles to Afghanistan for a weekend and because they found a cheap ticket.
It's more like r/relationships or r/therapy.
It is so weird how horny some subs are. I haven’t watched porn in a decade because I have sex regularly and don’t need to. But some of these 30/40 year olds act like they’ve never seen a naked person before. “This person wanted to fuck me and I haven’t stopped thinking about them in ten years” goddamn. If I wasted my mental energy on people who wanted to fuck I would have no time to do anything else. Everyone wants to fuck.
As a mod, it was likely removed if you didn’t include any info on what you wanted to do on your day trips. Under rule 10 we ask people to provide specific info about their interests to try to encourage specific and detailed posts, which tend to lead to better discussion. You’re still welcome to repost with more specifics.
Damn, must've been a sex hostel for it to be approved then.
I'm sure it would have got approved if you had a short paragraph related to some kind of sex story.
I'm super impressed by your reply here and those by /u/segacs2. If you need any more mods I'd be glad to help out a little.
The links don't exist as I delete them as soon as they have not been approved. In all honesty, I just browse the sub more now and post elsewhere as the chances that they will be approved is very low. In the past I am sure I have had around 10-15 posts that have been rejected.
lol...exactly.  Part of the heightened interest is in the unknown.  More carnal and physical then what daily life looks like.
John Robins (British comedian) has a great routine about why he hates staying in contact with people he gets to know while travelling, because seeing their social media just gives you more to judge them on!
he was probably still married lol
I'm curious as well. Did you end up together, OP?
Where are you from? I need to know if the spousal visa is desirable enough to offset how shady you might be.
No way 😂 something about them
Different honey in each town
[deleted]
Hm…kind of a weird question. I didn’t know for sure what I was going to choose to do until we said goodbye at my room and I realized I didn’t want him to leave.
Suit yourself! All of that was absolutely truthful but go off
[deleted]
[deleted]
This. Thank you. Ffs.
I am actually quite attractive and female, could have sex if I wanted to, but don't. I consider myself valuable and would never allow others to use me and would not use others either, because that is what a one night stand is, you are using others for short term, empty, pointless pleasure. Dunno, maybe there are very few people with morals nowadays (or on Reddit)? 

Like I wrote, sex with strangers apart from (for someone like me, emotionally destructive) is dangerous and can result in STDs, unwanted pregnancies or worse.
They really are idk what it is about them
[deleted]
You should! But if you have a lot of these romantic stories to share—may I ask what’s your secret? (Lol)
Sometimes I'll get reminded about my first crush and I'll remember the butterflies I had in my stomach tryna talk to her outside my 5th grade classroom. I'll remember all the awkward and wholesome moments we had and it'll make me feel all happy and giddy inside. It's a cute story, but for some reason if she was 20 instead it'd make you jealous.

Your partner is madly in love with you today, but they had a life before you and that's okay.
Most likely if you still think about it after getting married I advise not telling your spouse.
The first movie is sooo good. One of the best depictions of falling in love. It’s so mundane yet so beautiful
Oooo thank you. That sounds good! My favourite film ‘your name’ about two people who swap bodies and then try to find each other…also about things happening in time
thanks for the reality check. ive been telling myself to slow down too. +i have adhd which makes it even harder. So I am just doing it at the pace she's setting rn which is basically texting on a rolling basis every few hours. and some calls once a week or so
I have one too many stories of meeting people while traveling or even traveling together. I thought I was an outlier because I think about them often, sometimes even go out of the way to make plans with them. What I don't like is them occupying so much mindspace and interfering with the day to day.

Most of them have been non-chalant so I thought the problem is with me. Or maybe they are more emotionally developed to tackle flings at such rapid pace.

It hurts me sometimes but it shouldn't. I know it's a problem and one of the resolutions I have this year to be content with who I am. Perhaps force myself to take less interest in others' lives but I'm a curious soul you know?

I know I'll get over them. Soon.

If you have any tips, I'm happy to oblige.
Germany just legalized weed for personal use sp that last bit won't be true long.

Gotta stay though I might prefer the occasional puff of za over what felt like constant hint of cigarettes in italy!
These days I just lurk in r/travel where people actually seem to care about travel
I’m not sure why you’re being downvoted for keeping it 💯. I always bang someone when I travel, quite often several people - but I’m gay and that’s how we do💁‍♂️. If I had to remember those guys I would go nuts.
This guy fucks
How shallow to reduce a beautiful experience to sex.
I understand wanting to discourage "plan my trip for me" posts, but telling people my interests defeats the purpose of asking. If I'm looking for half-day hikes, I already know how to use a search engine for that. 

On the flip side, if I didn't happen to already know about Sedlec Ossuary in Kutna Hora, that's the exact kind of recommendation I'd want. Even though I'd never tell people I'm interested in churches, because generally speaking I'm not. 

This was over a year ago, but even if it were recent, I wouldn't repost for the same reason I didn't back then. I don't feel like jumping through silly hoops to ask for travel recommendations on a travel forum when I was specific about location and amount of time I'd have. It also makes me less likely to post any travel-related discussion in the future. 

So instead of supposedly better discussion, you end up with no discussion. Or rather, you end up with 100+ comment discussions about people being sad, more often than not about things that relate to travel in general, not solo travel specifically, in violation of Rule #1. 

You and the mod team are obviously welcome to run this subreddit the way you wish and foster the type of community and discussion you wish. My experience doesn't really matter, and maybe I'm the only person who feels this way or has had this experience.
Thank you for your kind note and interest, we'll follow up with you in a modmail message!
Posts generally go to our moderation queue to be reviewed by our team of volunteers, which can sometimes take a few hours. If you're deleting them as soon as you post them, you aren't giving our team a chance to review and approve them.
He could've lived as my Koh Tao lover in my head. Instead, he's just another bullet dodged.
> just gives you more to judge them on

Or getting jelly because they're travelling... again. While you're counting PTOs and calculating if you can afford X location for Y days.
Of course we did, in the tent at sunset on August 30th, right at the peak of summer. 

We had walked all day long under the sun so our skins had that sunburnt smell which I find very hot.

 The next morning soon after we got up she went straight in the ocean to splash in the kinda strong waves and she blew her knee almost right away. 

I was just outside the tent so when I saw her limping and holding her leg I ran to check her out and turned out she had a dislocated knee (or a tear not sure) the year before and that wave crash made it pop out again.

 So for the next week she was in so much pain that I could only take care of her but nothing more. 

The thrill was already over then she went back to Paris and I had to leave the country as my visa time was over. 

So no, we didn't end up as anything but a single week short story. 

But it was enough for me to think about still today as one of my biggest wins in life.

 It's worth risking and trying with people because even if it doesn't work out long term, the memories stay.
[deleted]
Sounds like this thread just isn’t for you
Wasn’t asking for tips haha just sharing my experience and wanted to hear about others and if they had similar experiences
[deleted]
I’d argue that travel flings (and their aftermath) are certainly part of the solo travel experience.
When life gets tough in the future you'll always have a sweet memory to fall back on my friend.
I wish they were all this romantic hahaha I've just got a lot of stories period 🤣 one time I was in Cuba for my highschool graduation trip in 2010...

I met a girl... let's call her Sarah. She was Italian, gorgeous, also from my home province but on a seperate trip. We really got to know eachother and we also partied hard. One night we crawled back to my room with eachother and I saw her out in the morning. Over the rest of the week we coordinated with eachother by leaving notes under eachother's hotel doors with instructions where we'd be in the evening and how to find eachother. This was in 2010 and using your cell phone in another country cost a fortune, so texting and social media were not a thing unless you were paying $2/minute for internet on the janky ass resort computer. We had to communicate like overseas lovers, only to rendezvous at night and fall in love all over again. It felt like floating on a cloud.. if I could bottle the butterflies I felt that week, I would keep them forever. 

Sarah and I actually ended up reconnecting when we got home and we dated long distance for a short time. It's really hard when you're 18 and don't own a car or have much independence. We made it last long enough for me to be her prom date.. that was an insane night and another story entirely lol
And what does that have to do with the other person and I saying that we hope throwitaway3177 is not married with their attitude? 

Why would I get jealous of a school yard crush or a random hook up? My comment and the other person’s comment is strictly about Throwitaway3177’s attitude. Not sure what you are  rambling about.
The others I think are even better. A realistic depiction of what happens after a fairytale fling
This is new to me
I have that on my list to watch! There's a key scene on an outdoor staircase in Yanaka that I've been to a few times. There are always a few people taking selfies there for that reason.
Good idea. Solo travel is not dramatically different from travelling with another person.
Thanks for the feedback! It’s worth noting that of the ~25 posts currently on the front page of the subreddit, ~20 of them are people asking for advice on their upcoming trips, and only the remaining ~5 are various other things about anxieties or hardships. 

I don’t necessarily think it’s a perfect system and constructive feedback is welcome, but the vast majority of posts I remove are just kinda vague. There are some on the borderline and I’ve been trying to be more lenient with those.

But generally if someone irl asked me “what’s a good day trip from X city” the first questions out of my mouth would be “what’s your budget? What time of year are you there? What do you want to do on a day trip?” So it usually saves time to just require people to provide some detail rather than the subreddit being flooded with a thousand vague “what is there to do in X” posts.
Yeah I had a reject saying I’d not participated in the sub before, when I know I absolutely had. 

It’s feeling rather cliquey and young skewing, which is annoying, but whatever. 

Won’t stop me globe-trotting! I get advice elsewhere now.
What I meant is, once they have been reviewed and rejected, I delete them as there is no point of keeping it on my feed.
Croatia is at the top of my bucket list, just above broken bureaucracies and impenetrable language barriers. Let's do this.
[deleted]
[deleted]
Can we have that story too
[deleted]
Say you don't understand men without saying it.
One of the key differences is that solo travel can be more emotionally intense, hence the posts sometimes about hardships. I try to apply the “hardships” flair to those posts to make it easy for people to skip the content they aren’t interested in.
I'm guessing you're a man? There are many places where solo travel is a big safety risk for women and wildly different than travelling there with another person
The “reject” simply meant your post was in the mod queue for review, which happens to all posts in the subreddit. It’s not meant to be excluding anyone, we just do that to filter out the dozens of weekly spam posts we get. Please do come back and post and just understand that a delayed post approval doesn’t mean your post is rejected
Again: an automated message saying your post was removed for review by a moderator due to your account being new isn't a rejection. It's just a standard automated message.

Once we review posts, we either approve them, or, in the event they are rejected, we send a message explaining why. The rules are the same for everyone and are designed to cut down on spam and low effort or vague posts. If you delete your post before we ever have a chance to see it, of course it won't be approved.

You are, of course, free to not participate. But if you want to complain about how the subreddit is run, please at least listen when we try to explain to you why your posts aren't appearing.
Because you are dissuading people from having one-night stands in a thread that is meant to celebrate one-night stands.

Everyone is aware of the risks involved, bringing it up like this is nannyism.
Probably not, but if you only want travel specific advice or discussion there’s always r/travel or you know, just scroll on by posts that don’t interest you.
It was nuts... so when we got home from Cuba it turns out Sarah was loaded. I'm talking... 4 million dollar house near Bridle Path (rich area) in Toronto type loaded. I grew up extremely poor so that was weird for me. She invited me to prom so I bought a bus ticket from my home town which was about 2 hours away. This was my first time ever leaving my town alone other than Cuba. I had to navigate multiple bus systems and get to her house on my own. I remember it like it was yesterday. 20+ degrees in Toronto, sometime in June. Beautiful weather. I was high on confidence and tasting what felt like my first real brush with independence. 

After we got settled at her house and I met her father, we went to the prom pre-dinner together. I learned that rich people love having events before other events. We had the pre dinner, the dinner, the pre party and the party. Crazy. Everyone looked immaculate with their hair, makeup, dresses and suits. I had a shaved head because I couldnt afford a haircut, and a $100 suit rental. I felt like I blended in at the time, but in hindsight I probably stood out like a sore thumb lol But I rocked with it. We took a boujee ass party limo everywhere we went that night. We danced, laughed, had a great time. After dinner I was told some "frat guys" were hosting the after party. Let me tell you - frat sums it up appropriately. It was just like the movies. A strip of frat houses near the University of Toronto campus, with multiple parties happening at the same time. People would just wander up and down the street, in and out of these party houses. Each one had a DJ in the basement, a DJ on the main floor and private rooms upstairs that seemed to have revolving doors. I really wish I could give you more details from that point but things started to get a little blurry. There was crowd surfing and a live band at one point though??  One thing I do remember... is Sarah, a very sweet, soft spoken woman, was all of a sudden a horned up crazy person when we left home. We had sex in 3 different public parks that night on the walk home. We stumbled into her house around 5 am and had to be up at 10 am for breakfast with her family. It was nearly impossible to talk about anything other than the night before, but that's exactly what we did. I couldnt wait to get home and tell my friends everything that happened. It felt like I took a trip to a different world and was coming back with stories about how dope life could be outside of my sleepy little town. I learned after that, people tend to respond with jealousy more than enthusiasm when you tell them exciting things you've done. 

Sarah and I drifted, naturally. A long distance relationship is really hard at 18 years old. We haven't spoken in 15 years. I creeped her social media a while back and it looks like she's settled down with a family now. She was born to be a mama, so I'm really happy for her. I hope she knows she made an impact on my life in the short time we shared together.
That’s not what I’m saying at all I’m just saying I hope the original commenter Throwitaway3177 isn’t married. You should really stop making assumptions.
Are you saying all men are perverts that obsess over a hook up for decades? Maybe if they don’t get any action besides that.

I don’t think you understand my original comment was about the original commenter’sThrowitaway3177’ attribute .
No, I actually received a note that it was rejected. 

Anyway, it’s too late now. Thanks tho.
Lmao. Clearly some of the responses here have pushed your buttons, don't take it personally and I will complain if there is something to complain about, like in this instance, okay :)
[deleted]
What did you become?
[deleted]
Everyone remembers their first love, their first kiss.  There is a romanticism with it, with our past and we aren't all just some knuckle-dragging neanderthals if that's what you are trying to insist if we remember our own romantic tales and adventures while we are on this earth.

In other words, you need to grow up, read some more poetry and maybe read the lyrics to a lot of music that's been produced over history about past loves.
Update is [this](https://old.reddit.com/r/solotravel/comments/1bjxv65/esim_issue_is_it_me_am_i_the_problem/) the post you’re talking about? Looks like it was automatically removed in error by our automod spam filter which sadly does happen sometimes. If this happens again feel free to message the mods using modmail and a mod will take a look at the post
We never reject people just because they haven’t participated. The note you received was automod telling you to wait until a mod could review your post.

Unfortunately new Reddit and mobile Reddit sometimes falsely tell people their posts are deleted when their posts are simply pending review. Feel free to repost it since you appear to have since deleted it yourself, I’m not seeing any record of it
Hey, we're just trying to help. You seem to prefer to pick fights. Your call.
At a certain point you might find it more rewarding to engage with the ~20 posts currently on the front page of this subreddit that are about travel rather than being angry at the one post that’s about flings during travel. 

Acting like the subreddit is “overrun” with these posts doesn’t ring very true when statistically this is the only post on the current front page that’s about dating.
Nothing special. An award winning salesman, line cooking, I do some part time photography work, blah blah. I decided to devote my life to travel so work is just a means to an end. Owning a home isn't a reality where I live so I decided to make as many experiences and memories as possible instead of constantly saving. If I work until I die thats okay. A lot of people think I'm not financially responsible and they disagree with my outlook because I don't save much. But I've been really close to suicide a few times, and I have a lot of family trauma, etc, etc. So deciding to just seek happiness has actually been the best decision I ever made and its really enriched my life. I've never been happier than the past few years.
I think you need to re read the whole thread. You don’t seem to understand what I’m talking about all.
How do you compare first love to a random hook up? Yes we all remember our first loves and first kisses.

I need to grow up says the person that can’t understand my comment was to Throwitaway3177  saying that I hope they aren’t married with that attitude.  I love when people make ridiculous assumptions 😂
Huh? I'm not picking a fight. Clearly the process is broken, as seen by all the other posts above. Highlighting it should be taken as positive feedback, like I said before, do not take it personally which you clearly are.

This is feedback btw, this message does not require a response!
[deleted]
Im sort of in the same depressive stage. At this point Im thinking of just seeking happiness that towards graduating school or working till retirement. I commend you for your choices bro
Thank you so much for sharing. I would absolutely read your book. Keep us posted on how that’s coming.
[deleted]
I don't know your past but you are projecting some kind of hurt.  Whoever hurt you, I'm sorry.
As I said elsewhere in this thread, if subscribers saw the enormous backlog of spam and zero-effort posts that we filter out every day, they'd probably be less likely to call the entire process "broken."

The subreddit rules are printed clearly in the sidebar and we always point subscribers towards a specific rule or policy when we remove a post. 

We're a small volunteer team handling a subreddit of over 3 million subscribers so yes, we appreciate tactful and respectful feedback - some of your comments (accusing us for instance of wanting to see sex-related posts, and the, if I may say so, rather rude remark that you "pushed our buttons") don't necessarily foster friendly interaction. 

I again get that it can be frustrating to see posts removed. In future if it happens to you, rather than deleting the post, please leave it up and message modmail with comments about why the post was removed and any feedback about that specific subreddit rule or policy. That'll give us something more to work with than some of the comments you've made here.
We don’t really care about engagement, it’s not like we make money from this. There’s no subreddit rule against posting about flings as long as those posts don’t break other rules in the process. You could argue I suppose that it’s not solo travel specific but we’re kind of lenient with that rule sometimes, at least I am (that can also vary a bit between mods since again we’re a volunteer team)
Just got my first piano!
Being a professional tuner, I’m lucky enough that I get to play different pianos all day every day. But since I moved out of my parents’ house a few years ago, I’ve wanted a piano in my home. My friends at Kawai of Michigan/Ohio helped me pick an ST-1 out. I originally wanted to go with the Satin Ebony finish, but the Oak finish they had in the show room sounded the best and I am so happy I went with this. It matches my floors so well. I’m so excited to start recording with this lovely instrument. Sorry downstairs neighbor, I hope the cookies and brownies make up for the noise!!!
Perfect spot for it, almost as if it were made for that purpose. Good luck with the neighbors.
Excellent choice. Love Kawai -- gorgeous setup
The colour matches your flooring. Congrats!
Tell me more about ST1 Kawai
I’m curious about the rug under the piano, is that custom cut? Is it a particular fabric to reduce sound going through the floor?
Lovely!  

I love Kawaii.  Have fun with it!
Congrats! Fits the space so well. Enjoy the music making!
What an awesome spot for it in your music room / study! Great light for playing at. Enjoy! (Don’t let that pesky Gretsch tempt you too hard now…)
Congrats! Get some curtains and control the temperature and humidity if you can. Being close to windows is not always the best for the longevity of the piano!

Have fun
Lots of folks buy cars, by the color. And lots of folks buy pianos by how well it looks as a piece of furniture.
Nice ST-1!! I’m a tech as well. We have a few of these at one of the uni’s we tune for! They hold up nicely. Of course I would prefer another treble strut on any upright, it makes such a difference, but nonetheless Kawai is the best game in town as far as uprights are concerned. Really slick man!
Nice it looks great in that space. I’m curious about the open front panel? Is it made like that? I’ve never seen an upright piano with that part open like that.
That’s such a great spot for it. Congrats!!
Damn perfect. I believe I also get it one day…
Looks amazing!!
I feel bad for the movers.

Great spot though!
Nice! I have an electric piano so it doesn't cause that much noise. Good luck!
Lovely setup.
It's beautiful! I much prefer these wood tones to polished ebony, but apparently I'm in the minority in that regard. When I bought my piano, the store owner said 90% of people who walk in want polished ebony, so that is all they carry for new models. There's much more variety in their preowned selection.
Hi, piano tech here. I’d recommend leaving the music desk in place in general. It will fill with dust, and take away from the play of the action much faster than if it were covered. It’s simple enough to pull the music desk off when you want to set up mics and record.
Jeez perfect fit ! Congrats
Congrats!!! I’m saving up for my own
Nice move bro! 

Some soundproofing panels under the piano should make your neighbor happier :)
wooow I love the spot where you put it in, really a nice room.
Looks good!
there are mats designed for under an upright piano??
Haha.

I rented a piano once, and the neighbor didnt like it.

Later they moved.

Later, the ex-neighbor - who was a professional house thief - broke in and stole all the equipment.

They didnt take the piano (rented), and nicely had me invoke the (what now hardly exists) 100% coverage loss policy.

The policeman who walked around my place (and their empty) place could hardly not stop laughing (that no one took the piano…)
Not custom cut, just an Amazon find that looked non-intrusive. It’s just normal carpeting as far as I know, but it came with some half inch thick eggshell foam that I cut and put under it. It also came with plastic caster cups, but I have some wood ones on order that I’ll put under it once they arrive. https://www.amazon.com/dp/B09LV2CWPM?ref=ppx_pop_mob_ap_share

EDIT: Link added for the carpet
If I ever become the CEO of Kawai, i would change the name to Kawaii.
Thank you!! That pesky Gretsch is so much fun. I have it tuned to C right now and it’s definitely scratching my itch for extremely low tunings and alien noises.
It’s so funny, I thought it was ugly as sin when I first saw it. I honestly thought it was hideous until the movers got it in here and it matched my floor PERFECTLY. The only reason I bought it was because it was the best sounding of the one’s I played. Stroke of luck, I guess!
Thank you, my friend! I absolutely love it! I am a little bit worried about tuning stability, especially with us going into the colder season very soon, and it being right next to a single pane window, but that’s what I have a lever and climate control for. It lived on a showroom floor for almost two years, so I’m sure it’ll be fine.

The uni I tune for is a Steinway school, so most of what I see are Boston UP126s. That initially scared me away from Kawai’s build quality, I absolutely hate those pianos due to the sound and tuning instability. With the action problems newer Yamaha’s are riddled with on their lower end instruments, Kawai seemed like the better choice, regardless of tuning stability.
Nope, it’s not made without it! The music rack is sitting in my closet. I’m mostly going to be using this piano for recording, so I have it off for my microphones! It looks a hell of a lot cooler like this IMO.
Hi, I’m also a tech. I’m really not that worried about dust in my space. My guitars are out 24/7 and they stay very clean. The mics are going to be clamped to the lid so it really wouldn’t be easier. If dust becomes an issue, I’ll throw together some type of fabric cover for the action.
I think I know why they haven't been returning your calls.
Dampp chaser.
Very interesting, thanks for the reply!
Got one in my truck already haha. It’s going in next week.
That’s whassup
Thinking of Dropping a Student
Aw I feel terrible, I have never dropped a student ever before. I like to think of myself as a flexible teacher who meets students where they are.

I really wanted thing to work with this student, the way I do with all my students. But God, I don’t know what to do.

My student is 11 years old. She constantly complains things are too hard and refuses to do them. This part I can handle but it’s in addition to impoliteness.

She constantly comments on my “messy” handwriting, tries to override my 25 years of music education asking how I know things or making obvious comments on music as if I don’t know them, asks me to play her the hardest songs I know. She gets angry and defensive if I tell her she played the wrong notes, she  won’t play it again because she “played everything right, you’re wrong”. She challenges me on pretty much everything.

My mum thinks I should quit, my mum was a piano teacher for 40 years and has told me she can count on 1 hand how many students she’s had like this one.

I also have to go to this students home and it’s super difficult to commute to, it’s not near any major station.

What do you all think? Think my mum is right?

Update: Thanks for all the different comments and insight! Tons of great differing opinions. Happy to say I got a second opinion from one of my old music teachers, she gave me some great advice and I’ll share it here with you. I should have mentioned before that I’d already spoken to my students parents but that didn’t help. The parents had also sat in on a lesson.

As a last go, my teacher told me to directly ask her “do you actually want to keep learning piano right now? it’s okay to take breaks”. 

The idea was with this question to let her choose. If she said “No” then I’d say “okay, no worries, take a break from piano and you can set up lessons if you ever want to come back”. If she said “Yes”, then I’d say “okay, but if we’re going to continue here things need to change and we need to show eachother mutual respect and we need to set some ground rules for our lessons”.If her answer was inbetween then I’d recommend her to take a break too.

Surprise! She chose “Yes” and agreed to the new ground rules! Then we had probably the best lesson we’ve had since she started and it was great to see her genuinely happy at the end. Felt like we made a huge breakthrough.

May not work for all students like this but I thought it was a great idea from my old teacher and worth a shot! Turns out my old teacher is still teaching me 🩷
Please make sure that you let the parents know why you are discontinuing lessons with their child.  I had a child like this I was teaching and I just let the parents know that I found her behaviour quite disrespectful and that I would not be continuing lessons.  Wished them well and moved on.  I had another student in her place within a week.

Your time is worth more than this.  Your experience should never, never be disregarded by a student.

Sending hugs
Yes. Life is too short to tolerate things like that, if you have the financial possibility of letting this difficulty go.
It sounds like the right decision for you is to drop this student. 

I think people tend not to be aware of the fact that they, as customers, can be fired just as easily as teachers can.  The value of the time that you spend with this student and the travel you do -- that all has value that is going unrecognized.  Reclaim that value by firing the student and saving that slot for someone better if you can.
One thing I've learnt in life is: if something adds stress to your life without sufficient gain in return, cut it out. 

Unless you're so on the margin you can't afford to feed yourself, this one looks like a no brainer. I guess you'd probably fill the slot with someone nicer, anyway?
have you told her parents? Feels like you should bring it up with them before making this decision, as someone else said it may be worthwhile to have them sit for a lesson.
Drop. I wish I had done it with mine sooner. You will be so much happier when you do.
It's clear that she doesn't have a problem with music, piano, or even you. That girl is crying for help—it's obvious.

That said, it’s not your responsibility to intervene (unless you suspect abuse, in which case, please help her). If it's just a matter of bad attitude, it's okay to drop her as a student. Again, it's not your responsibility.

But please, take a moment to check in on her. Even after all her annoying and disrespectful behavior towards you, remember, she's just a little girl.
Oh I have a student exactly like this lol. I'll tell you how I handle mine...

If she plays something wrong, I point it out. She almost always interrupts and claims she played it correctly, so I say "then you should have no problem playing it again right now." When she inevitably makes the error again, I immediately yell out "WRONG, RIGHT THERE FIX THAT NOTE." Usually she'll be like 'oh oops' and fix it.

If she says anything derogatory like insulting handwriting, I don't have any problem roasting her back with something like "well you're in 3rd grade and have homework."

She does frequently ask me to play pieces, something "hard or cool." And I usually do, I don't mind taking 5 min to show them something inspiring. And afterwards I'll follow up with "... and that's why I'm better than you."

If at any point she's being extra difficult, and not doing what I tell her, I hit her with the ultimatum: "So are you done with lessons today? If so, let's go tell mom why you're finished early." And that will get them back on track.

Ultimately up to you if it's worth the headache to deal with the student or just drop, but that's how I handle it.
Yes. Your mom is right. You don’t have to be rude or impolite. What I usually do is send an email that says 

“Dear Mrs. X, 

After some serious consideration I have come to the conclusion that my studio/practice is not a good match for your family. For this reason I will be discontinuing lessons with (student) as for (date). Expect a check in the mail for $ for the lessons that have already been paid.  

I wish you and (student) the best, 

Miss X.
Have a parent observe a lesson. 

After the observation, state that you'll give her one month to improve attitude she has or she's done.
Not worth your time or energy. Bail.
If the child weren't 11 years old, I'd be inclined to think she has a personality disorder; but regardless she is trouble and is acting in a way that will be her undoing whether it's in piano or any future discipline. I do freelance collaborative piano and I have had one or two teen/pre-teen violinists that I accompany who do this kind of thing to cover up the fact that they simply are unprepared.

It's worth a discussion with the parents - maybe there's some extenuating factor that explains the behaviour. Maybe a parent could sit in on a lesson. That might be interesting. But likely this child should find a new piano teacher.

There is a well-known Suzuki violin teacher/teacher-trainer who tells all families that he offers "million dollar lessons." The "million dollar lesson" goes like this: the child (with parent) is warned about the behaviour on the spot. They get two more strikes. If they fail that, the lesson is immediately over. (The name comes from a parent whose child who received such a lesson and turned around and asked for a refund. He declined and told she had gotten more than her money's worth - that it was worth a million dollars.)
I think many people are too tolerant these days. I had a great piano teacher as a kid who respected young people and talked to them like adults (appropriately). She had a well communicated, hard rule that if you weren’t going to consistently practice, then you’d be dropped. Her reasoning was sound that it is waste of time and money if you’re not in it to learn with persistence. Flaking out one week was accepted but after she knew your specific ability to progress with practice she would definitely call you out and drop you, kindly, after a while of not practicing, always with the invitation to return in a year if you’re ready to try again.

A teacher having infinite tolerance for zero effort and a poor attitude is damaging to a young person. That’s not how you help someone learn to learn.
Show her parents this reddit post.
Drop the kid like a hot pan. No one needs that kind of crap.

If mommy and daddy want to have a little monster-child, that's their choice. 

You do NOT have to deal with it. 

Refund any pre-paid lessons, tell them you can no longer teach their little princess and block their numbers before you get back to the station.

If the kid is like this, I can only imagine what mom and dad are like.
Talk to the parents. Consider there might be a reason the child is behaving this way. I have a student that was being very difficult, rude, and disrespectful, but after talking to the parents (and talking to the girl after a particularly tough class), i realize that this 9 year old is essentially raising herself. Her parents aren’t malicious, just maybe not the most equipped to be parents.

That doesn’t mean you have to be the one to take on the responsibility, but for me, i realized that this kid is actually not bad, just misguided with no stability in her life. This change in perception made a huge difference in my approach and she has definitely changed her response to me as well.

Again, not saying you should do one thing or another. Just offering my experience with one such student.
Have you been clear with her that she’s being rude and that it’s uncalled for when your whole purpose is to help her? It’s possible she’s never been called out for her bad behavior. Or maybe she doesn’t want to be there. I’d suggest putting your foot down (if you haven’t already). I only mention it because maybe something else is going on with this student. I doubt you’re the only one who is seeing this behavior
I think your mum is right, this sounds like a mess you shouldn't have to deal with. It's sad to see children not appreciating being able to learn from someone.
One thing I did was have kids sign a "contract" before beginning lessons which outlined expectations for practice and behavior.  Simple like:  practice x mins per day, treat each other with respect, 1 performance per year, etc.

I would ask this child if she enjoys the lessons and if she'd like to continue.  If so, you are going to lay out the plan and expectations going forward which will help HER success.

She may not want to take lessons, and you will only get frustrated.
I agree with your mum, as I’m sure would my own mum (who like you, me, and your mum was also a piano teacher for many decades.) 

Unless she has learning difficulties eleven is more than old enough to know that her behaviour is unacceptable and it’s therefore her choice to deliberately try to derail lessons and goad you into a reaction. More often than not, and particularly if you’ve already raised these issues with the caregivers, this goes hand in hand with parents who are, to be polite, also difficult. 

Regardless though, unless you really need the money from her lessons, life is too short to be putting up with students who are only there to waste your time, especially when you are travelling to them. Speak to her parents and let them know what’s going on and why you’re dropping her as a student. I would be very surprised if they don’t already know about her attitude, but if they don’t then at least you’ve given them a heads up and a chance to work with her to improve.
While you want every student to succeed, when you have terrible students who have no desire to actually learn or improve, firing them is both the correct decision and…really funny. They generally don’t even realize it’s an option. They assume that as long as their parents are paying you, you’re their servant and that you need that money. Telling them that no, you will gladly go without that money because they are that terrible of a student is a chef’s kiss moment. 

You have done your due diligence and tried to be a good teacher for them. It’s admirable how much you’ve tried to adapt to them. They suck as a student and that’s not your fault. Personally, I would let the parents know that you are discontinuing lessons with their child because they are hands down the worst student you have ever had, and that you’ve been teaching for X number of years and this is the first and only time you’ve fired a student. Worst case, the parents try to stand up for their kid and you can politely tell them that what you have been telling them is that they are no longer welcome in your home. Best case, the parent hears you out, then goes out and rips their kid a new one. Either way, you no longer have to see that family again.
My Clarinet teacher had a policy established from the beginning: he can tell when his students don’t practice. If you have 3 of those lessons in a row, you’re done. 

My parents and I (as a 12yo) both thought it was a fair policy. The teacher can only do so much. The student is the one that needs to actually practice. 

This student does not sound like one who genuinely wants to learn.
Triple the price and quit if they don’t pay.
If the parents are aware of the situation and aren’t making any effort to fix it, then you have every reason to politely contact them and drop those lessons. Definitely make an effort to contact the parents though, as it could be a good way of teaching her a great life lesson if the three of you are able to make her understand her actions. Otherwise, if the parents condone it, or simply don’t care, drop them then and there!!
Welcome to the average middle school aged kid in America.  I can count on one hand how many students I had that weren't like this.  That's a bit of an exaggeration but it was really tough teaching private lessons when most of your students would rather just tell you that you're wrong and no matter what you do you can't seem to get them to focus longer than 2 seconds.

I tried so many tactics to get kids to focus.  Some of them just couldn't process words very well it seemed.  I had a number of students that couldn't remember simple things for very long.  I'm not even talking about memorizing pieces.  They would look at a passage that had three notes in it, lets say F# G F#. I would ask them what the first note is.  IF they were able to work it out without help it would take them 10-15 seconds to say "F".  I would then have to remind them that key signatures exist.  And again, they would ponder what I might mean by that for 10-15 seconds before either just looking confused and shrugging or then saying a completely different note name because I was implying that "F" was incorrect.

This was after working with these students on scales, working out of books to help them learn the staff better, playing exercises that would familiarize them with the instrument, etc.  A lot of kids were just unable to think it seemed. Hell, I even wrote out a lot of video game music and other popular songs into duets that we could play together because it's either going to be familiar sounding to them or just more fun than playing Lightly Row.

After all this there were just a number kids that couldn't be told what to do or just can't process instruction well.  Teaching was enlightening.
Is this child on the autism spectrum? The impolite comments, rudeness, etc sounds just about right. 

I have that child (my daughter is 13) and it can drive you batty. 

If you choose to keep her on, you need to know that she requires absolute specific instructions on politeness between you the teacher and her the student. She knows the rules for school teacher and student, but piano teacher and student is different. You gotta spell it out. 

“It annoys me when you ask if I can play the hardest song I know” or “I can play the hardest song I know next week, if you practice all the drills today with me and don’t complain”. 

If she tells you something like she’s correcting you, ask: 
“What made you correct me? Were you trying to be silly, or did you think I did a bad job?”

Oftentimes my daughter will say “Silly!!” Because she thought it was great fun to correct adults. She had to be explicitly taught not to do that, and then all variations of the unwanted behavior eventually need to get addressed.  

It’s exhausting. It’s painful. It’s annoying and you don’t *have* to teach her. Ask her if she enjoys piano, or if she’d rather play a different instrument. Maybe her parents are forcing it.
I'm sure you've heard this already, but if a student simply doesn't want to learn, they will go out of their way to hinder any sort of progress. Sounds here like they don't want to learn, and your tolerance towards them isn't going to change that.
There is no reason to continue with something that is not worth the time/effort you put into it.  Maybe another teacher would work with this child.  Maybe the child is just a bad egg.  Regardless, if you feel like the trouble is not worth it, make the decision that is best for you.
I really think you should drop that student. She seems way too difficult to work with.(and a brat)  You don't need to stress yourself out over her. Plus it's hard for you to travel to her house as well? Nope! I think you should bounce while you still can.
I had some very difficult younger, students, when I taught guitar. I eventually dropped them based on the fact that I was their teacher, not their social worker. I found that some parents who knew their children had behavioral issues somehow figured that maybe it would be different with a music teacher, and the child would later apply their better behavior to other (learning and social) areas of their lives. The parents know, don’t let them fool you into thinking it’s only you their child acts out with.
As a 30+ year teacher, first I would never let a student speak to me that way. If she had attitude I would correct it immediately, raising my own voice if need be. If the behavior didn't stop, I would request the parent to sit in on the lesson. If the behavior wasn't present during the observed lesson, I would bring up the past behavior to the parent in front of the student & we would talk about it. If the parent was mortified & vowed to stop it, I'd let them continue. I'd also insist the parent sit in on any future lessons. If the parent was dismissive, I'd fire them both right then. I'd say, "I'm sorry, but I have X years experience doing this, I have a degree, I have years of knowledge at my disposal. If my expertise is not of value to you, then you are welcome to find a different teacher. I'm not willing to put up with disrespect & lack of effort. I'm removing you from my schedule." You'll have that slot filled within a couple weeks, guaranteed.
Why don't you just talk to her? Give her the 'talk', lay it out for her and see what she says because ultimately, no one here knows what is going on in her head besides her. I've had many students like this at schools, most of the cases were just problems at home (being forced into piano, emotional neglect leading to them not knowing how to properly address their own emotions). 

Also, think about how you respond to what she does, you need a more positive and light-hearted approach. Don't take her hand writing comment personally, it could be out of curiosity in a slightly twisted way, her trying to get a reaction from you because of issues at home and maybe a lack of attention, all sorts of things...so you could make your lessons a place where she could feel good. Obviously a piano lesson is a piano lesson but if you just spend time understanding her more and seeing her as a vulnerable young, emotional human being who needs help, you both would feel a lot better.

 Piano lessons doesn't just mean to sit down and play piano for 30 min, you need to make a connection with your student and make them enjoy piano, it could be you showing them some music you like or talking about their week. The end justifies the mean so it doesn't matter how you conduct your lessons, as long as she enjoys the piano and has a positive experience you've done your job. I've had students that had pretty bad weeks and are not efficient in the lessons, I've learnt to just go along with it and try to make it less stressful and it will stay with them longer.
STOP RIGHT NOW.  This is an abomination.  She is awful and she needs to hear it and the sooner the better.  You are doing her a great favour by cutting her loose.  And it's a pain to get to?  She'd have to be a very special student for that.  


I would go there one last time, so as to do it in person.  I would sit down with her and her mum and say, very calmly, at every lesson, you make it very clear the lessons aren't working for you, that you don't like me.  You find infinite ways to let me know that;  you don't even like my handwriting.  You clearly believe you know more about the piano and music in general than I do, so I won't waste any more of your valuable time and money.  


If she protests, or her mother wants you to stay hold fast.  I would say, no, your daughter exhibits very abusive behaviour towards me, and I'm sure you wouldn't want me to accept that.  It is very unpleasant.  I would say to the girl, every kind of behaviour produces some sort of result, and this is the result of your behaviour.


Again, very calm demeanour, you are using it as a teachable moment.


Good luck and please let us know how it goes!
Cut her loose. Maybe she’ll find a teacher she can connect with. Maybe she’ll quit and never play again. Not your problem. Suggest to the parent that they inquire at a nearby studio where there are several competent teachers. Give her the number. Suggest she might find one there who goes to the home. Then don’t look back. I’ve run across a couple of incorrigibles. I’ve accepted a few whom other teachers have had difficulties with who have done fine with me. I don’t have the answer, but if I feel I’m not getting anywhere, then what’s the point?
Regular teacher and a piano student here... I think you should drop her. A single student can completely sour your attitude and joy in teaching. As a regular teacher I can't drop any student and I have good semesters and bad semesters as a result, and on the whole I have unfortunately become a bit jaded, which I regret. 

You, on the other hand, have the luxury of being able to teach only those that you get along with. So take advantage of it, and I hope you always find teaching to be joyful!
🎶Drop it like it’s hot, drop it like it’s hot.🎶
>asks me to play her the hardest songs I know

That can be solved by redirecting the student's attention back to 'Twinkle Twinkle, Little Star' ... or whatever they're practicing.  I would assume you're not there to entertain someone else's child.

Parents today don't ever tell their kids 'no'.  I don't understand it because I grew up in an era where parents didn't do that.  The behavior you've described isn't surprising to me.  If it were me, I'd tell the parents about the issue and see what they say.  If they get upset about it, just move on.
This child has a very shame-based personality and is projecting her shame onto you, eg criticizing your handwriting, not taking feedback “I’m right, you’re wrong”.  Sadly, you can be sure her personality formed in response to parental misattunement.  

At best, her parents are well meaning but completely emotionally stunted, and are probably themselves quite shame-based.  There’s a good chance if you drop her and tell them it’s because of her behaviors, they will shame and criticize her for it, rather than get curious about how they’re (not) attuning to their daughter.  Point being, as much of a pain in the butt as she is, there is a context for how she is, and she deserves some compassion.  That said, one needs to have boundaries to have compassion, so dropping her as a student may be the right boundary for you.  It sounds like you already feel that way.

She’s not your daughter at the end of the day, and it’s extremely trying to have a student like that, so I could totally see doing that.  My main point was just to put in perspective that she is still a child, she’s not on a good track in life.  

If you keep her as a student, piano lessons are just an avenue for her to develop some sense of safety and self love- in other words piano lessons as informal play therapy.  For example, when she criticizes your handwriting, you can tell her how that makes you feel.  Then just sit with her for a moment.  Children will push our buttons to get us to feel what they feel, when they don’t know how else to say it, or are not even conscious of how they feel.  Even you just modeling healthy behavior and boundaries will help her.  Again though, that’s a lot of work beyond normal piano instruction, so the healthy boundary for you may just be to send her packing.
Life is too short. Rip the bandaid off and do what you want to do.
I also have personally never dropped a student. 

In these situations I usually resort to gentle sarcasm to show them I’m not just some piece of cardboard with no pulse. 

I will also say slightly snarky thing IMMEDIATELY back to them when they confront me; like, “you’re welcome to take the slower route if you like”.

Humor also works well here. For whatever reason, it seems like the student doesn’t really trust you yet. 

My students like this generally chill out after the annual concert and see how many other student I work with. They quickly realize they suck compared to the other kids and straighten up. Lol. Kids.
Dropping the student should be easy since you’re the one doing the commuting.

I wouldn’t give the real reason though.
Only two options. Drop her or forget about music proper for a while and gain her trust. She doesn't trust you.
Come on, I deal with this every day!

Talk to her parents, and see if she's going through a phase, maybe she's got major problems in school, idk.

I guess private lessons are not like a school degree, I mean, there's not going to be an exam (?) you can lower the exigency and maybe find songs that are more of her liking, in the end students perform badly if they are forced by their parents, if they don't like what they do. Don't take her misbehaving personally!

Find out the way of doing what she likes, get to "make friends with her", that's what's being a teacher is about
Mum is right!
Drop them ! Not worth it
If parents really want you and they make a sweet deal then, maybe, big maybe
but even then let someone else tolerate that lol
Even better. Make the price commensurate to what it's actually worth to deal with this little person. Double or triple it. At worse, they don't agree, then you've successfully dropped them. Viola! No guilt.
Having taught piano, and having had students very much like this — they’re simply not worth the stress and wear and tear on our bodies and psyches. Dump her.
It depends on how much you want the money
Some might say that you should do her if you can afford to, financially speaking. But for the long term outlook of your studio, I'd say that dropping her could be the smarter move, financially. Of course it depends on what kind of studio you want to run. Many teachers do just fine teaching remedial students and make decent income. But I've found that in every community, the students and parents talk. They really, really talk. The future success of your studio, in both musical and financial terms, depends on how good your students are.
I think that, unless you have a big economic problem, you should talk to the parents of the girl and explain to them that she's clearly unwilling to learn and that unless she changes radicaly it will be better to leave it there and maybe try another teacher. If her parents can not put her in her place, then yes you should quit.
Just seconding the suggestion to talk to the parents. They may agree with you about stopping lessons or they may also have some insight as to why the student behaves this way and how to handle it. 

Also, someone else here suggested autism-- which sort of makes sense to me, as I once had a similar student who I later found out was on the autism spectrum. Had I known, I may have dealt with them differently or researched strategies for teaching autistic students. Perhaps this is the case for your student. 

And lastly, the student is old enough that you could speak to them about the effect their behaviour is having on the lessons. I usually frame this as "we both need to treat each other respectfully in order for lessons to work", and most of the time student get it.

If all that fails, then at least it's clear to parent & student why you're discontinuing. Good luck!
Yeah, just simply tell them that the commute is too difficult
My friend has cleaned pools for a living his whole career. Sometimes he has to fire a client because the client doesn't remediate certain conditions that make his life difficult, such as an old tree constantly filling the pool with debris, or refusing to change the water after decades. The difficulty of commute also figures in, as does the attitude of the client. Why are you messing around with this?
Lol, I definitely would drop. Why bother wasting time if she doesn’t want to try? It sounds like the Mom is making her do lessons against her will.
Do what you feel is right for yourself. Listen to your heart. You know what to do. Now go and do it in a nice manner.
Drop her. And come tell us how she and her parents reacted. I need the tea y_y
It's not your fault. It's not the kids' fault. It's the parents' fault. 

Move on.
Sounds like a spoiled brat. I think nobody would blame you honestly ...
In my town, piano teachers are scarce! If my teacher wanted to replace me it would take her 5 minutes!
Rather than drop the student, set new guidelines and let them decide if the student and her parents want to accord with it.
Please escape and don't blame yourself. This type of stuff happens
It’s not your job to teach this brat when the parents obviously didn’t do their job.  Part ways.
Invite a parent to sit in on a lesson and then have a discussion with the parent about the behaviour - make it a final notice.
Call the parents and tell them what is going on in lessons and that you are frustrated. Ask them if there is anything they could tell you about the child that might help you to understand what is going on. Leave it at that and see how she acts next time. I have to disagree with the comment above about parents knowing their kids behave like this. I had a really disrespectful student even dare me to email her parents. So I did. I got the most apologetic phone call from a mother in tears. The girl showed up next time with an apology letter her mother had made her write and a very humbled demeanor. 

If the girl never comes back, then it might not be that you offended her parents. It would more likely be that their child mortified them and they are too ashamed to face you. 

If she does come back, write out a behavior code for your studio. Read it to her. Ask after every point, “Do you understand? Do you need further explanation?” Tell her, “I will not have these behaviors in my studio. I am the teacher. You are the student. You are here to learn. If I see this intolerable behavior again, it will be your last lesson. Is this clear?” Insist upon her signing it. 

And then, if she does it again, you’ll know you did the utmost. 

And please, don’t listen to people expecting you to be a therapist or a heroine Michelle Pfeiffer kind of teacher that SAVES this girl. Once you talk to her parents, they can decide if she needs professional intervention from a licensed behavioral therapist. It could be in addition to feedback they’re getting about her from school and might help them to realize that she’s got something going on, but you should be respected in your studio, all the time.
I’d bet anything your student is autistic who comes across as an asshole when she’s just genuinely curious. People often take autistic curiosity as a challenge to their “authority” or subject matter expertise but that’s just how autistic kids learn.
I would charge her double or triple and then let her decide whether she wants to continue.  She has to pay for your pain.
Oh yeah, drop them. I’ve dropped students before, you don’t have to do this.
I say drop her. It's a privilege to have a teacher like you, one who has been patient and has that attitude towards teaching. Not to mention how you go out of your way to get to their home. 
If she is a brat, then she doesn't deserve privileges she clearly doesn't even want.
Personality conflicts can occur in any situation. A student/instructor pairing is a relationship, and if you aren't comfortable in your relationship, you are 1000% right to end it. You're allowed to feel bad, but if you also feel it's the right move, it is DEFINITELY the right move!
Life ain't no picnic for a piano teacher, don't make things harder for yourself than they have to be. There are a million people who want to learn to play, will put in effort, and will at least be respectful. You don't owe that brat your time valuable time and effort.
Have you spoken to the parents about this behavior?
Quit! Tell the mum next time at the end of the lesson that it’s the last lesson and leave a polite explanatory note on your way out.
I wonder if they could maybe be autistic (edit: or neurodivergent in some other way)?  It’s possible they might be really rude, but I wonder if maybe they have lagging social skills for some other reason.  Might be worth exploring!
This is a no brainer waste of a read
I'm not a piano teacher but if I had this experience I'd just drop.
As a final attempt I would have meeting with the student and parent, and lay down your boundaries. Let them know that if those boundaries are broken you will be dropping them as a client.
Sounds like you'll be happier if you drop her. Don't feel bad if you do! You don't owe them anything.

If you decide to stick out, it sounds to me like she's really insecure. She doesn't want to make mistakes in front of you, and she wants you to make mistakes to help herself feel better. 

A couple things that could help: 

-Precede constructive criticism with a compliment. For example, "You played that passage with beautiful dynamics, but I think a couple of the trickier notes were mixed up. Lets just go over it one more time to make sure you've got it."

-Make mistakes yourself and acknowledge them in a light hearted way.

-Acknowledge her comments, but indirectly call her out with followup questions. For example, after a complaint you could say, "challenge is good, but we definitely don't want to do something that's too hard. Can you point out which part you think looks too hard, and we can try to break it down?" 

-Give her power and choice whenever possible. "Do you want to do A or B next?" Play her several songs and let her choose which she wants to learn next, etc 

-When my son is not into his lesson or is having a bad day, his teacher plays a game where he gets to control the beat on an elaborate metronome app and she has to improv to whatever insanity he comes up with. They both end up laughing hysterically.  That specific game isn't probably what you want to do, but there might be an activity that will help reset the vibe and end the power struggle for a bit.  

-Be honest. "It doesn't seem like you want to be here, or like you want to learn piano. Is there something I can do differently, or would you like me to talk to your mom about maybe pursuing a different activity?"

-Last hail Mary, talk to the parent. "Your daughter is very argumentative and doesn't listen, so I'm not able to teach her effectively. Do you think this is something that can improve, because if not I don't think it's a good use of your money." There's a good choice that this will just result in the parent defensively quitting, or yelling at her kid, which could make the kid resent you. That's why I would advise talking to the kid first.
Oh gosh I read the first paragraph of this and had to know if it was me 😅
I’ve never had a super problematic child student,  just occasionally ones that were disinterested. In those cases I just try to make it more fun and teach them songs they want to learn even if it’s not the best for their education. Otherwise they learn nothing. If you’re at your wits end and truly feel like they aren’t learning anything, do what you got to do. It might be a good wake up call for the kid’s parents.

Semi related story: 
My most problematic private student was an adult student I suspected was a heavy cocaine user (disappears to the bathroom every 2 seconds, hands shaking, super hyper). He didn’t practice, seemed to be utterly tone deaf, and more or less just banged on the piano how he felt regardless of my instructions. I tried to be a good teacher and it wasn’t worth it. I work at a music school and it’s generally frowned upon to drop any student without really good reason.

When he threatened to hit me for not extending his lesson time after he was late I got my reason.

TLDR: it’s not worth your time and sanity
Drop her find a better client. Dont force it, you’ll both be better off.
I think discussing the students "challenges" with her parents is great. But maybe as a post mortem to your getting the hell out of what clearly sounds like a toxic abusive atmosphere with a student that probably has either behavioral problems or real, and perhaps serious, learning disabilities. Either way, you need to take care of YOU first. Unless the income is great and/or you need it badly, dump the damned kid. It sounds like a stressful, unpleasant and downright shitty situation. Take care of you first.
Nice!!!! I hope this is a corner turned and it continues to work out well!
If a child was simple minded and making no progress ever, I would understand why you'd hesitate. But if the child is simply badly behaved, of course, you shouldn't have any qualms about dropping the kid.

You're not a child psychologist, so if your job as teacher devolves into something else, it's totally normal for you to get out.

Good luck!
I have a student who acted like this as well. He is 7, he opened a piano book and asked me to play a difficult song, after l played one he asked for another and said it is too difficult for me bla bla bla. If you don't trust me, find someone else. He did the same thing as OP's student like being defensive when you tried to correct his mistakes. He is rude and the worst thing is he would play with his feet during lessons and asked me to smell that. I have had this student for a few months. I wanted to wait and see if things will get better over time, but it looks like it is now time to stop this kind of crap.
I have been teaching for 20 years, so far l had met 3 students who are disrespectful like this, the families are middle class, lawyers, bankers, people who have money. I also taught students who are not from rich families, these students are more respectful.
Half ass it and collect that check until she quits
I’m not my opinion a teacher is mainly there to multiplicate the interest and fire a student has for music. And 0 x whatever will always account to 0.
Kids are just spoiled rotten these days, and if they misbehave they get labeled with some kind of disorder. Just do it like it was in the old days, misbehavior, expelled from school. Period.
[removed]
It's a good suggestion, however that behavior comes from somewhere. And it's either the parents themselves or they tolerate it from the kid. You'd be fighting an uphill battle one way or another. Yes, I agree it should be done. But my guess is it will have zero impact on the parents.
I wouldn’t do it. Parent might get belligerent defending their offspring. It’s easy to just say “we are not a good match” or nothing at all.
Complete agree with you, but nowadays these kind of parents won't be receptive they already think that his child is perfect. An Will fireback and with  social media behind probably will hurt the theater.
Really, you would be teaching the girl an important life lesson, one much more important than learning the piano. She might never learn, but…
I agree with this
No: YOU make the decision, then notify the parents. This is not a negotiation.
This comment should be the first.  It's too easy to get caught up in our own objectives and stressors and forget that this is someone who is still figuring out how to be a person.  She clearly feels bad about something, and is reacting in a poor way.  I'm sure you have been patient and kind, but, if you haven't yet, it might be helpful to set aside teaching piano for a moment and just talk with her if she will let you.  One thing I have found as a teacher (not piano) is that most kids just want to be liked; when they behave like this, it's a defense mechanism - "I'm going to be unlikable and pretend I don't care if someone likes me so that it won't hurt as much when they don't like me."   Same goes for trying and succeeding or failing - "If I don't try I won't really have failed."

That said, I agree that it's not up to you to be this kid's rescuer or anything.  You clearly have spent time with this child trying to help her already.  But you also clearly care.
😂 

I have a few students at a studio in addition to my main private students. I have a student that needs tough talking to once in a while as well. Not a bad kid, but sometimes he shuts down and in his words “turns into an NPC” when he doesn’t practice. Mind you, he’s 11 and too old to be like that. It’s his way of showing he is disappointed with himself. But my policy is: I’m not going to berate you for what you didn’t do; I want to move forward with a solution.

Problem is, when he is in NPC mode, he literally just sits there unresponsive . So when he gets that bad i have to literally very loud and sternly dictate instructions to him to “prod him” into working. Well, this particular morning some new student’s mother was outside, heard the “yelling”, called and complained. “If i was that childs parents i’d be furious”. 

Lady, the rooms ain’t sound proof and there’s a window on every door. I don’t do or say anything I wouldn’t in front of a parent. Sorry a stern lesson ruffled your feathers. There’s a big difference between holding someone accountable and berating. 🤷‍♂️🤷‍♂️
I find that getting the parent to observe in this situation basically only go 2 ways:

1. Child behaves properly while parent is observing lesson... gradually decays back to original behavior lesson by lesson without the parent present. End up in same situation.
2. Child acts up anyway during the parent-observed lesson, likely because they act up at home and get away with it with their parents anyway so it doesn't matter in the lesson.

In the end, it is a foundational problem that starts and ends at home so it's really up to you if you want to continue to "fight the battle" so to speak. I would likely say explain myself to the parent, say good luck and send them on their way.

Also usually, when teaching younger (5-13yrs) students I find it is essential to engage the parents anyway (Every week try to talk to them about the student's progress, any behavior problems, good progress points as well, practice tips, etc.) so it is usually not a surprise to the family if there are problems brewing.

\*Edit added final comment
I'm not a piano teacher, but I'd probably do this too if it were me.

Also, I'd probably add a little more structure. Make a list of areas that need improvement (such as willingness to do the work, willingness to accept feedback, whining and complaining, respectfulness, etc.). After every lesson, briefly tell the parents how the student did.

One reason for doing this is that it might create more of a path to possible success because the parents can know whether whatever they're trying is working so they can make adjustments. And if the kid does improve (even if in just one area), that feedback can serve as encouragement that can improve the odds.

The other reason is, if it doesn't work out in the end, then the parents will have had negative feedback multiple times in a row. They'll have a chance to prepare themselves for the bad news. And there's less chance they will be on totally a different page and go "What?!?! I thought she was doing better!!!" because they'll have heard "not moving the right direction" several times in a row before that.
Or just record some sessions as if it's for teaching/learning purpose?
I knew a 12-year-old who completely lost her mind one day. Mental illness out of nowhere. An 11-year-old can certainly have a diagnosible mental health issue. Who knows, but the parents should help her deal with it.
I really feel like a little gentle confrontation would be healthy for both parties, and would give the opportunity to explore the source of the rudeness.  Perhaps it would establish some boundaries and behavior standards also.  If that doesn’t work, I’d definitely not continue lessons with this kiddo.
All of this. It's worth considering. Also, as a girl she is exponentially less likely to have been diagnosed/evaluated, so the parents may be unaware and just think she's "bad", which reinforces the not taking criticism well.
This is exactly correct.  I have a kid on the spectrum and it takes specific gentle, logical critique and boundary setting to help him learn how to communicate in ways that other understand and can enjoy.  He can be literal and hyper-critical, and not even mean to hurt feelings.  

Also, it’s genetic.  The parents might be on the spectrum also, and might not understand that there’s a problem with their child’s communication and social skills.  You might be helping her understand social skills that her parents cannot help her with.

That being said, if she’s resistant to comply with your boundaries, or continues to be very rude and difficult, it’s not worth the trouble for you.  It’s not your responsibility, and your enjoyment of the process counts for a lot, too.  If the cons outweigh the pros for you, especially after a good effort to help her, you should walk away guilt-free.

Piano teacher with an autistic son, here.
I can’t believe I had to scroll so far to see someone mention this.
I just noticed you said you travel to teach this student & it's difficult. Definitely fire this student. Not worth your time or effort.
And just to add -- she learned this behaviour somewhere.  Which parent would be a toss up.  But even more reason Mummy hears it.
Great comment 💯 Totally beyond my job but you can read in my little update that we’re giving things another shot. Kids are complicated! But at the end of the day I love teaching, and sometimes that goes a little further than just music.
Most people think in this Neanderthal way about music lessons. They say 'this isn't worth your time or the stress', 'life's too short to deal with this stuff' and so on. 

Yet the same people will rave about how music had such a positive effect on them beyond learning the instrument, and how a caring teacher made a difference in their lives. 

Make the difference in her life. Do the work to win her trust. She is obviously bright and is perhaps easily bored. But also maybe she is being forced to do piano and isn't that into it. 

She is a person, and your time is not worth more than she is. Do the work to win her trust, and probably you'll find that once you have it, she will be one of your best students. She's seen the hypocrisy in the world and she is having none of it. No one can hurt her if she doesn't let them have influence. She can't be disappointed that way. 

How about you bring hope back and chip away at the cynicism. Show her how beautiful music is, not just how to press keys on a piano.
I commented above that this child sounds slightly autistic, but piano teacher may not be in on the diagnosis. Or she is undiagnosed.
Interesting perspective! Thank you for sharing that.
That is a gross insult to the neurodivergent community.  This girl is vicious and abusive.
pffff lol
Tell me you’ve never taught without telling me etc.
i don’t many 11 year olds who know more about music theory & piano than a person who does it professionally; especially considering they are there to learn...
Get help. I admire the mental gymnastics you’re able to do but…get help.
Yeah I've taught countless kids over more than two decades and I can tell you for certainty that the student OP is describing is not a 'better student', let alone anyone who will be accomplished at music by middle school. In fact it sounds like all the students I've taught who have little to no talent or work ethic.
Sadly you are probably correct. Personally I still think it could benefit both parents and child to hear the feedback, even if they aren't receptive. If the student is behaving like this toward other teachers (and she probably is), at least they might eventually consider that their child's behavior is the common denominator. For all we know, the parents have no idea how their child is acting during lessons.

Yes, it's an uncomfortable conversation, and at the end of the day OP has zero obligation to be upfront about it. However, unless there's reason to believe the parents could retaliate somehow, there is no real harm in trying. 

The world is full of people who refuse to take responsibility for their own actions. If there's any hope for this student to shift away from that mindset, it'll be much easier now than when she's an adult.
Depends on the situation.

I used to tutor a lot and while yes, they usually get it from somewhere, it's not always their caretakers or parents. I had a lot of adoptive parents and grandparents who weren't around for whatever screwed up the kid. Or you have divorced parents. Anyways, point being the parents do need to hear the feedback, even if there's a good chance they'll ignore it.

Also, a lot of kids are medicated or going through something in their personal life. So their caretakers need to know what's happening with the child while they're away so they can deal with the issue.

Even with shitty parents sometimes that feedback can help. I had a student who had all sorts of problems the parents ignored, but when I told them he came in super high after driving to our appointment, they finally broke and did deal with the issues.
Not necessarily from the parents. My 7 year old got a lot of attitude when he started school, and we eventually found out there are some "cool kids" in his class he's mimicking. 

Now he's behaving when we, his parents, are around, but I can't control him when I'm not. I'm very grateful whenever any teacher or other parent let me know when any of my kids misbehave.
That was my first thought. You can tell them, but they're the reason she's like that lol.
I was going to say the same thing. I’d avoid confrontation, let the parents argue with someone else.!
Make it easy for yourself

To the OP, definitely dump the student, not worth your energy
Just cut 'em loose like you accidentally hooked a stingray. Bringing it into the boat is never a good move and a quick and quiet disconnect is your best course of action. 
And you think that's going to prompt any better behavior on the part of the parents? You don't think they will immediately demand to know why and get angry when they immediately (and correctly) sense that you're evading them?

You're going to have to deal with the parents one way or another. Best to handle it professionally, up-front, and assertively. It doesn't have to be an itemization of the incidents; it doesn't have to be a lecture. Just inform them.
I would probably only tell the parents if I would try to continue to teach the kid.
I agree. Some parents will start to defend their kids and may even badmouth you for saying their kids are not good.
so instead of telling the parents so that they can take disciplinary action towards their kid. You just one day break the news to them that the whole time you've hated their kid and the lessons are over. What an atrocious way to run a business and communicate with people. Just let your disdain well up instead of taking actions to mitigate the actual problem, then suddenly break the news to the parents. That's unbelievably immature.
Of course it is OP's decision in the end. But that should not stop them from talking to the parents, who might be perfectly unaware of the problem, to give them a chance to maybe remedy the situation, before dropping the kid.
If you give enough good reasons to be unlovable, then it’s not like they are failing you or leaving you. Since it’s you who pushes them away, you feel in control. And it shortens the wait for them to abandon you, which is the worst part—not watching them leave, but knowing it’s going to happen.

All that 'control' is false, of course, but it’s a common defense mechanism for a child who doesn’t have many tools to deal with certain issues.
Sternness is good and needed at times, but I do want to say this actually sounds like a form of dissociation or executive functioning / shut down issue on the kids end. Obviously yeah sometimes kids just do that, i’ve definitely had my fair share of kids who would shut down and it wasn’t a deeper issue aside from some general discomfort but it’s his wording that got me, because that’s how I describe my dissociation 🤣 It does straight up feel like you just go NPC mode. 

I used to do that at that age and it turns out I have a dissociative disorder & neurodivergencies and i’m still undoing the shame my shutdowns caused. If he’s an overall good kid but he struggles with that, it might be worth encouraging his parents to get him an evaluation for adhd or something! It could also be nothing at all, you & the parents know the student best, but some of my behaviors as a child were misunderstood as defiant when really i just had underlying mental health symptoms that were affecting me.

edit: i wanted to say that even if he did have any of those issues, his and your response as teacher & student probably wouldn’t change much aside from giving him tools and you more understanding (aka clarifying that you’re not doing anything wrong 🤣) idk what could have helped more than just prodding me back into reality either, so you’re doing good teacher, my inner child thanks you for being patient with him.
I think some states require both parties to consent to recording, so be careful about that.
Definitely worth exploring with the parents what might be going on. At a minimum, if there isn't mental illness, then one might get a good idea about whether something about the parents' attitude and behaviours might be exacerbating the child's tendencies.
Sounds clearly like a behavior and attitude problem.

Mental issue is different, you have to see one to know if. I wish you won't, it will chip your sanity away... Been there
That's awesome!  I just read the update.  It sounds like she responded very positively to being given a choice, and to being given some ground rules.  That was some really solid advice from your old teacher.
Music teachers are music teachers, not therapists. Unless op finds this advice compelling, they shouldn’t feel an obligation to put in effort to reshape someone who has likely checked out a long time ago anyway
I tried to be the piano teacher you described. I never gave up on a similar student OP has, but to no avail. The student quit despite me bending backwards to accommodate, motivate, and inspire them. There's only so much a teacher can do. The student should also put effort into their learning, and have manners and respect for their teachers!
[deleted]
I certainly don’t mean it as an insult. “Vicious and abusive” in part depends on intent, and most young children aren’t that way for no reason. I just think maybe something else is going on causing the girl to struggle. Who knows. Sometimes things aren’t as black and white as then seem on the internet.
[removed]
[removed]
Kids that behave like this will have parents that allow this I'll mannered behavior to spiral out of control. Just cut 'em loose.
Yes! I would do the same.
No, I think the teacher should  write a polite letter explaining the behaviors clearly but kindly, and say that this situation is not  conducive to good piano learning. On the last day of lessons, give this letter to the parents when they as k why. But do not negotiate with the parents or try to parent their child. Just politely say, this is not working out, and if they ask, say why in a carefully worded and gentle letter. But never get into long discussions about other people’s children with them. THAT is what’s immature.it is not her job to parent this child. The child has to have basic self control and teachability order to learn piano. That is the parents’ job and the teacher can reasonably and gently explain the child is not ready to learn.
Him?
Thanks for taking the time to message. I agree. Unfortunately, I work with a lot of East Asians and South Asians and acknowledging mental health or learning issues are not a forte. Any time there’s a difficult lesson with a student, I’ll address it at the end of class. In this case, it was along the line of:

“Hey, I know that you went NPC because you didn’t practice a few weeks in a row. But we’ve been together a long time. Remember, I want to move forward and find a solution. No use on us dwelling on before. We need to find a way to get this piece done and try to avoid it next time.”

This usually works for a bit. Even if he comes in not having practiced he’ll actually say to me “I didn’t practice, I know we need to do it today” and we’ll get straight to work catching up on the assignment.
Yet very many music teachers acknowledge the role of a kind and caring teacher who was a patient enough to stick around while they (the student) went thru a difficult time. Often that experience was precisely the reason they wanted to be teachers
Also clearly there is no obligation. I'm a random person on Reddit, not the government. And OP is free.
Agreed. And good for you for doing that. You can feel satisfied that ou did your actual best and not wonder. Children are learning in every possible way. Part of that is learning how to be, as a person. And how to be as a student. Too many teachers expect their students to be competent from the word go, and in so doing forget that they are TEACHERS, and their job is to teach, not only the subject at hand but also how to study, how to focus, relate we'll with others, including with the teacher. I wish more teachers would put their students ahead of their own feelings and comfort. I am also a music teacher btw and I have taken both approaches. I can't tell you the impact it has had on both my teaching, my standing amongst my students and to some extent my reputation among their parents. They know I believe in them and their potential, whatever it may be, and that I embrace my role to SERVE as their teacher. I'm not the best music teacher, I have some holes in my own learning. But my students know I truly have their best interests at heart, and it has made a huge difference in the way they approach lessons. Theyre more trusting, less argumentative, more curious and most crucially they feel free to express themselves. Which after all is the goal of music making. 

Just my two cents and how I see the world. I wish more music geavhers were not so cynical. Look at the downvotes on my initial comment. People can be so selfish and forget that teachers should teach each student according to their needs. That's what we all want from our teachers I think.
If you read it again you'll see that's not what I said. I said the teachers time isn't worth more than THE GIRL. Which is true.
I agree that things on the Internet are very much in their own context, one that could appear very differently in "real life".  This situation specifically; speaking as a decades long piano and violin teacher, I would put up with that behaviour for about 2 seconds flat before shutting it down.  Forever.  My first question is why is this girl behaving this way, followed very quickly by why is the poster putting up with it?  


But aside from that, I still hold firm that this has nothing to do with being neurodivergent.  Even if this girl IS in fact neurodivergent, her behaviour is not about that.  There is some rage she's experiencing and/or witnessing in her life, and it's having a profound effect on her.  She was not born this way.


That the OP has not confronted it is not doing this child any favours.  As a matter of fact, it's teaching her that it's okay.
Sure, bud. You’re not even a very good troll.
I understand what you're saying but the odds of that are exceedingly low. You're telling OP to tolerate insufferable students on the 0.000001% chance that they're the next Argerich. Especially considering that in piano, by age 11, future potential should be very, very obvious, and it doesn't sound like that's the case here at all.
it's absurd to expect a child to be mature independently of their parents, and it's deeply immature to be unable to handle a child's immaturity, when your job is literally teaching children. In any case my initial comment still stands, it's incredibly immature to suddenly drop a student without even bringing it up with the parents, because you can't handle a child's immaturity. That is how a child would handle it. That's not how an adult should conduct themself, or their business, or any of their social interactions. Being quiet and resentful, then suddenly lashing out is deeply immature, when the issue can almost always be mitigated by a simple conversation. Lashing out like that would make you as immature as the child. And to be too prideful to speak to the parents about their child's behaviour is absolutely ridiculous, this person is a piano teacher, their job is literally teaching children.
Pardon?
Honestly that’s the best you can be doing for now then, i’m sure he’ll grow up & appreciate that you talk to him like a person. He seems like he’s got a good head on his shoulders, most kids struggle even admitting when they didn’t practice.
[removed]
[removed]
Nah, no lashing out at all. Just polite disengagement, with a gentle explanation. No teacher should put up with that kind of behavior; just a polite, kind explanation of why it won’t work is all that’s needed. Engaging to try to change the child’s behavior won’t help and it is the parents’ job; the child is eleven and the parents are undoubtedly aware of the problem already. Why push them? It’s intrusive and an overreach. You’ve said your say, I’ve said mine, and I think we can now agree to disagree.
The comment I replied to was edited to not assume OP is a dude
Bad bot
>Most people thought Socrates and Wagner were insufferable too

Everyone is not Socrates and Wagner. 

**You** are not either. You are just insufferable and miserable and should seek professional help.

You are what that kid will become and that is not a good thing.
It’s one thing to question a teacher, and another to do it in a disrespectful manner that wastes a bunch of lesson time. If she was supposedly the next Agerich or Zimmerman then the lessons would have went smoothly and quickly with discussions that were constructive. Denying she played a wrong note isn’t constructive, nor was there any mention or implication that the student argued with her teacher about articulation, musical interpretation etc (high level prodigious concepts at that age).
Gotcha
Men being creeps in Italy
Hi there, I’m currently solo travelling in Italy and have found that a LOT of men have been extremely creepy, to the point of following me to train stations and walking with my down multiple streets. I have been to Italy before and didn’t find it so bad (I went to the same area). I’ve been wearing joggers and jackets and this still seems to do nothing :( I’m not sure if anyone else has experienced people also asking for photos with me? Like taking a picture of themselves with me, which I assumed at first was a scam to try and pickpocket but I had no bag and just my phone in my hands so I’m unsure. Any advice on staying safe while alone here would be helpful!!!

Edit - I’ll add a few things here I have answered in the comments. Not all of these men are Italian ethnically, I would say it’s 50/50. But it is also definitely Italians too. I saw a lot of comments about Italians liking tall blonde women, I do not fit this category, and I have seen it happen to other women who don’t fit this category either :( back home I have been told I have quite an intimidating look, but clearly this isn’t a deterrent 
Italian girl here, can only agree with you
I saw a video a woman puts on a fake mustache when out walking around lol and I bet that shit works wonders
my only bad experience solo travelling was courtesy of a group of italian men who followed me around asking if i would suck them off (this was in broad daylight around so many people which to makes crazier) so makes sense
i wish women had the ability to release a pungent odor when they feel threatened
Which part of Italy is this in? When I was in Milan and Rome ealier this year I didn't experience this and actually found them to be quite gentlemanly...

Or maybe they just didn't find me attractive lol
I had an awful time in Italy solo traveling. I tried every approach - politely declining advances, telling them to fuck off/leave me alone…nothing worked. I saw the mustache comment above and love that idea 😂😂. Anyway, just here to commiserate, sorry you’re going through it! Hope you still manage to have some fun!!!
It seems things don't change. My friend and I (at the time, both early 20s females) were backpacking across Europe on a shoestring budget about 25 years ago. Immediately upon our arrival in Italy, we got surrounded by a pack of random men in the train station and didn't feel safe (initially we were just concerned about them being a gang of pickpockets, but as they kept increasing in number and tightening the circle, we became extremely uncomfortable). We ignored them as much as possible and talked to each other, loudly mentioning the police a few times before they finally dispersed enough we finally could walk away. The next day we again encountered aggressively weird men so we noped out Italy, heading to Austria, which wasn't previously on our itinerary at all. Beautiful country and we felt much safer and at ease. Things can change a lot in 25 years of course, but I wouldn't hesitate to return to Austria and would actively avoid returning to Italy at this point.

Were they dangerous? Probably not, since they eventually let us leave. But it definitely soured our opinion of the country as a whole --we never made it to Rome, which we had been looking forward to. On the plus side, I can recommend Innsbruck (if you're young, at least--it seemed like a college city to me at the time) and Vienna was also nice.
I've always found Italian men to be pretty bad as well in this regard and I've found that being outright rude to them (like telling them to leave me the fuck alone) works the best.
Iam Bavarian and the Italian weekend at the Oktoberfest is a nightmare
Luckily I’m a minority so no Italian men bothered me whatsoever . They just ignored me lol
I think it's pretty well known stereotype that Italian men are like this, I remember my mum talking about when she travelled there how handsy they can be
Yeah, took my step daughter one weekend in Italy to go from "everyone and everything is great" to "what is the point of the male gender!!?" I don't think she had a great time. She's back to normal now, but I don't think she's ever going back to Italy.
Be aggressive back and tell them to fuck off. As someone who grew up in a culture like that, I learned to perfect my “fuck off” face very (very) young. 😒
I noticed that a lot in Northern Italy (lived there for four years). Understand, the majority of men were decent, but I was brazenly stared at there more than any other country I’ve been to. It isn’t even an admiring glance, but like being locked onto the glare of a predator that wants to devour you. 

I started returning their gaze with a straight face and made them look away first.
Italian here. They see you're a tourist so you are more insecure and lost and maybe you are here to have "fun" (they really do think like this). And, moreover, if something bad happens they think you wouldn't know what to do or how to legally defend yourself.

And in southern Europe men are really crazy about tall girls with blonde hair.
im starting to think italians are doing this to keep tourists away
Scream BASTA! But yeah. It sounds like Italian men. Haven’t gotten any better since I was there 10 years ago.
I’m an American who lived in Europe for 6 years. Italy was one of the countries I was most excited to visit and while northern Italy was beautiful the experience was the worst I had for all the countries I visited multiple times.
I've heard this from many of my female friends.

I've only had a couple groups ask to take photos with me in Latin America because they might have thought i was kpop haha
I just got back from solo travel in Italy. I was taking the train from Naples to bologna and was sitting next to a kid who was no older than 18. I dozed off for a little bit but woke up to them STROKING my thigh! I could also see something moving under this joggers. I slapped his hand away then he got up and he went to the loo or wherever and didn’t return. I had an earlier stop so I just got off. Still mad that I didn’t make more of a scene and tbh I’m still in shock from the incident. I’m sorry to generalise but this wasn’t the only creepy incident I encountered in Italy. Sorry, the men in Italy did NOT pass the vibe check. The women however are just lovely.
I heard that (don’t know how true and/or if it applies to Italy) some men want to take pictures with you to brag that they slept with you…

Edit: but it could very well be something more innocuous, though I still wouldn’t take pics with strangers unless there’s a clear reason why someone might want to take a picture with you (eg. wearing something funky? idk)
And is anybody still questioning why we choose the bear? Seriously?
My travels through Italy were the only time I felt unsafe in Europe! Totally agree with your points, men looked at me with a scary look in their eyes ..
Spain isn't much better, had a nice walk in a park in Barcelona spoiled by a guy who wouldn't take no I'm not interested, you can't have my number etc etc. I was downright rude in the end and I still think he thought I was playing hard to get. 

I didn't feel threatened as he was about 5cm and15kg smaller than me but it's just wearing and shitty.
I’ve only been to Italy once, for two days during an interrail trip 20 years ago. But during those days I got robbed, and my female friend nearly got raped in an alley when asking for directions. Luckily she had her wits with her and put a knee to the guys balls and ran when she realized where it was heading… Not much advice from me, other than to stay the fuck away from there if you’re travelling solo.
Italian here. Born and raised in Sicily but the lived around the world.

I'm so sorry and ashamed to read all these comments about Italian men. Of course not every Italian is like this but I do reckon that this is a problem, and in the past it was even worse.

My girlfriend works in an anti-violence support center for abused women and children and I hear all different sort of terrible stories about these monsters called men that are destroying the image of the good respectable folks.

There is a small group of people that is aware of the problem but is very much a patriarchal society which is very disgusting.

Sorry in name of all the decent Italian gentlemen out there who are trying to make thing a little better and have women not having to feel creeped out when going for a simple walk.
Welcome to Southern Europe where the weather is great but many men are super creepy.
Act weird, growl at them and start foaming at the mouth like a rabid dog, do some Jackie Chan moves whilst cackling really loudly, then squawk at them whilst flapping your wings and charge at them.
Now I know how ugly I’m. Nobody has ever asked to take a picture with me. Lol
Even as a guy travelling through Italy I found the men creepy and invasive. Especially in Sicily, always felt like I had eyes on me. I can’t imagine how much worse it must be for women. All I can really say is sorry for your experiences. When I see a woman who needs help getting away from harassing men I try my best to help, but I never feel like I’ve done enough and there’s always more stories like this and worse
Practice ur stone cold demon face. No emotions, nothing. That real lead poisoning boomer stare. I do NOT smile at men in public to be polite and don't greet them either(either in Italy or anywhere else actually), there is nothing savoury in this world a grown man needs from an unknown woman on the street that he can't get from another man. Don't even let them open dialogue with u as thats how they weasel into a conversation with u and then u are stuck with this fuckwit tailing u in the street. I'm like a shark in the water, I don't slow down or stop for any man on the street, even in my home city. If I know u, ofc it's diferent. 

I blank face them, motion for them to shoo-shoo-go-away without even making eye contact with them, I've hissed/growled at them, once even splashed one with bottled water and told him to fuck off. if they follow me i go to the busiest place possible and if they still want to act up, they can do it publically with u saying out loud "LEAVE ME ALONE. I SAID NO. GO AWAY. LEAVE ME ALONE. STOP FOLLOWING ME" or i approach WOMEN. don't ask for help from a man that will be the next lovesick idiot following u. There are so many times women have come up to me and said hey this guy is following me can u pretend to be my sister/ mother / coworker ? And I will forever help them out.
It was bad enough for my wife when I was with her. I hate to imagine what it would be like solo.

My wifes a pretty banging blonde and I thought it might have been something they don't see a lot of. But it's europe so imagine they see plenty of tourists.

Naples was out of control compared to Rome. Guys standing outside shops would stare the minute they seen her until we were out of site. 3 Guys didn't see me and started to follow her, when I walked around the car beside her they made their way back to the alcove. It was relentless and she still talks about how distasteful and uncomfortable it was 10 years later.

I think it's something you will have to live with. And be careful at night like you would anywhere.
Welcome to Italy
Italian classic 😄 Heard the same story from every female friend going to Italy
Italy sounds horrible to visit
In Rome I was walking home from a late night out and on the way this very attractive young woman began walking with me. At first I was thinking this is a scam or some trick and soon a bunch of people will try their best to mug me. I’m not a huge guy, I’m average and fit. Then we started talking and she said she wanted to walk with me because she said she felt safer around me. I didn’t mind. This is the first time I saw this behavior that women in Italy and the rest of the world have to deal with at night. It was smart of her to do that as she said we appeared to other men that we were together and no men would hassle her. Once she was at her place we went on our ways.
Last year, while dining at a restaurant in Rome with my friend, an elderly Italian man sitting at the table next to us began taking photos of my friend without permission. It made us uncomfortable, and I had to raise my voice twice to get him to stop.
I found this to be true in Paris also.
Italy is cool and all but idk not really my favorite country in Europe gives me the slight ick. Its more conservative for sure, lots of scammers, and things seem kinda third world for being in Western Europe
I have been to Italy three times on my own - first time, on a train from Pompeii to Sorrento I was seated wedged between two people and a man stood behind me with his crotch resting on my shoulder so he could look down my top.  I was also propositioned by the elderly hotel porter.  Second occasion I was flashed on a train, the man translated ‘are you wet to fuck?’ on google translate while openly wanking.  The third time I was followed around Como after accidentally speaking to a man who approached me as I looked at a map, I managed to shake him off by telling him I had to rush to meet my friend.  I’m back in June, wish me luck lol!
This has been going on forever 

[Ruth Orkin photo 1951](https://images.app.goo.gl/tHcUtegPSTwEqMVR9)
I studied abroad in Italy in 2012 when I was about 20 and experienced a lot of creepy behavior and catcalling. The worst was my friend getting roofied (luckily nothing worse happened) and also a man grinding on me in a crowded bus. 

Only advice I can offer is don't make eye contact, don't engage if they talk to you. Watch your drink. Not just when you put it down but when it's in your hand too. Don't walk on deserted streets alone at night.
I didn’t know what street harassment was until I went to Venice, Italy as a teenager with my female friends. It was mind blowing how lecherous some of the men were
Especially if you’re a natural or natural looking blonde. Italian men are sleazy as hell. 
With my ex girlfriend a very pretty natural blonde in Rome, she left the hotel once by herself and came back no more than 15 minutes later upset.
Couple of Italian guys had cornered her by a store trying to take pictures with her and put their hands all over her.
I got my 6’4 260lb ass out the door pretty quick and gave them a slap for their troubles. 

I felt bad though, Italian men are fucking tiny. Like teenage girl tiny.
Don’t agree with anything anyone asked you to do and just keep walking and ignore them.  It’s been like this for decades maybe centuries
  I met a friend in Greece, but she had been traveling in Italy for a couple months before. She told me a story, she went out clubbing with a couple gals from her hostel. On the dance floor an Italian guy started dancing with her, ended up putting his fingers up inside the oven, completely uninvited. She didn’t even know this guys name and he tried to finger her. 

Absolutely wild.
I witnessed this traveling there 25 years ago - it was shocking. Sad to hear it hasn’t changed.
I was unfortunate enough to experience this in France and Belgium but didn't have any of it in Italy. Maybe I was just lucky. A few men approached me but were polite and took no for an answer when I said I wasn't interested 
I’m sorry for your shitty experience in Italy. You deserve to enjoy your vacation in peace!

For all of the shit people talk about the US, this rarely comes up as an issue here.
[removed]
I usually solo travel, but some places are better when I go with my big bearded tattooed boyfriend. Italy is one of those places.
They're very racist too.
I met one Italian guy in Spain from Napoli. About 35+ and Jfc man idk how being that aggressive with women works or is normal. 

Like every girl he saw he’d chirp at it was insane. But even more insane to me because it must work at some point or he’d never do it you’d  figure
I was 15 and had a grown ass man walk by me and pinch me in Rome. No suggestions other than to make a scene and sound like a maniac when they pull something. Italy is beautiful and I've been a few times, but between the men, pickpockets and scamming I wouldn't care if I never went there again.
Ugh I really can't stand the men (boys) that do this. People should be able to wander and enjoy Italy without being harassed. Most men aren't so pathetic but the few that are make us all look so bad.
I had this in Italy when visiting my Italian friend.  She had to work one day so I ventured into the city by myself.  I'm blonde, so was noticed, had men staring at me and one guy followed me on the underground then to my friends work, he kept trying to talk to me but I don't know Italian.  He only gave up when I ran into my friends workplace and he couldn't enter it.
Italian male here. I’m so sorry for what you had to go through. Some comments are right saying that female tourists are even more vulnerable to this kind of behavior sometimes. It’s a common thought among many males (also people I know of) that female tourists are here only for a period of time and because of that are more inclined to make experiences with Italian men. Especially in touristic locations. For example, on the Adriatic coast, in Emilia Romagna, near Rimini, it’s a common thought that nordic (or German) women are there to have sex with Italians and it’s not only something locals think. It’s a way of thinking that is typical also of Italian men that go on a holiday in these places. 


Obviously it’s not only tourists that are the victims of this kind of behavior. I live in a small town not far from Milan and my GF hates jogging because every single time she does she gets catcalled multiple times in just an hour. Not only by men saying comments, staring or following her but also by men that drive, usually honking at her. One time she was particularly shocked because one of the man that honked at her while passing by with his car was the father (married) of one her students (she’s an elementary school teacher). I’m sorry for what every woman in this post had to go through, I hate these men for ruining your experience in this beautiful country
I’m sorry this is happening to you. When I went to Italy I was treated with the upmost respect by gorgeous Italian men. I’m tall and blonde and attractive. No one bothered me at all. My advice would be can you travel in a car? I didn’t do public transport. Also find a travel buddy?
They can be funny too. When I was in Milano, I  was hanging out in a square just watching people.  I had several Italian men approach me. Finally, I told one guy, "Look, I have a boyfriend I love very much."
He replied, "That's okay, I'm not the jealous type." 
He made me laugh. Then he told me to be careful because there's lots of creepy guys in Italy!"  LOL!
I worked on cruise ships for 6 years, a lot of Italian men work in engendering and bridge officer jobs (high up roles). So I speak from experience when I say I have never been sexually harassed more than any other nationally other than Italians. I’m talking walking down the corridors being told “ I have the best boobs on the ship”, walking up stairs being asked “what type of panties are you wearing” on a weekly if not daily basis even. Sadly once it was physical. 

Also it is rare to know a faithful one, numerous Italian men have partners/wife’s and family’s at home, and repeatedly cheat. I know countless men who have told their “ship girlfriend” to pretend they don’t know them for a week or two while his wife and kids come to visit him onboard. The day the family has disembarked the ship, the girlfriend onboard is back in his bed that night. 

Funnily enough, they’re all Mummas boys, so I find it strange they are so comfortable cheating on a woman. Anyways, that’s my rant. 

No hard feeling towards Italian men (other than those who verbally and the one who physically abused me). This is just an observation I witnessed countless times in my career at sea.
I'm in Rome right now, but so far everybody has been nice, I get a lot of stares, but people stare at me in my home country as well or anywhere else (maybe I have something weird on my face I don't know about;)
I'm very sorry this is happening to you. It's a horrible situation, nobody should experience
Oh yeah Italian men are the worst when it comes to unwanted sexual harassment from any of the places I’ve been in Europe unfortunately
It’s weird as a gay guy this is totally the  opposite in Italy. Gay hookup culture has made gay men so deranged in the west that sending dirty butthole pictures to strangers and basically sexually harassing anyone you find slightly attractive is common in most gay spaces. Italian gays are very polite and wholesome I would  very much like to date an Italian.
Tie your hair back and wear a cap.

I got a lot of attention in Italy. I have long curly blonde hair, so it got tied up when I wanted to be left alone.
As an Italian man I’m ashamed about this, I dunno where this generation goes or whatever, we are not like this. At least I hope so….
Been in the same situation as well.. was hanging around fontana di trevi & always spotted men glancing at me from a distance & following me with their eyes..
Train stations are littered with creeps ( all around the world ).
North or south?
It’s a perplexing situation with Italian men. Firstly they’re pretty hot normally, but very aggressive. You want them, but you don’t want them because they’re so aggressive. It’s a round and round situation.
Damn, I didn’t have this experience but I only went to Rome!! The only thing I did was, I would physically walk away from any man who came near me, or spoke to me; and made a stink face.
It’s why I don’t travel to Italy anymore. I was molested on the street in broad daylight as a teen in Rome, and I now find the entire country unsavory. If you want to make them go away, and they are truly Italian, tell them “va via, porco diavolo,” if there’s only one, and if there are more than one man, “va-tay via, stronzoni di ca-nay”
according to r/travel you are only allowed have this experience from India, and italy is all about rich culture history and food. IYKWIM

and iam sorry for your experience.
when i was in Genova, people actually told us to stay inside at night. avoid any dark streets or sketchy areas!
Yeah I was followed by a man late at night for blocks who got very angry at me ignoring him in Rome.  Luckily his shouting attracted another guys attention who came to see if I was alright and walked me home.  I also had an Italian guy climb into my bed and ask me if I wanted to have sex while I was trying to nap at my hostel in Spain after a 5 minute completely mundane small talk conversation.

I’ve had people ask for photos in other countries but never Italy.  Usually it happens in places where I look very different from the locals.

Your best bet is to find people at the hostel to hangout with so you aren’t going places solo as much.
it happened to me, too. so much so that i didn't enjoy my holiday. but when i mentioned this in this sub, i got downvoted to oblivion LOL
Two months ago, I was in Dolomites and needed car assistance at night. The men from car assistente gave us a ride and started to take us to his home to have dinner with him, instead driving us to hotel which was what we agreed. This was at night in the middle of a snow storm, we were 2 girls and the men didn’t speak english. When we realized we were going in the wrong direction and confronted him, he turned around and was very unfriendly the rest of the way. We got super scared…
From my experience, they are just very bold when they find someone attractive but are usually harmless. It's cat calling on steroids but I think in some places, the cart calling leads to dangerous situations so it can feel off putting for some. In Italy, it hopefully leads to a phone number but usually nothing at all. They are just VERY bold. If Italian and Jamaican men hung out, the world would be in trouble.
I wonder if Italian women also choose the bear over the man... 😂 sounds like they're forced to...
I am so sorry. I had Italian men chase me down the street in Croatia. They were such a problem everywhere I went that I, to this day, refuse to go to Italy. The only way I could get them to halfway leave me alone is to wear a fake ring and tell them that I was married. Out of respect for my FICTIONAL husband, the left me alone.
They do this because you stick out, and they can spot someone who doesn’t belong no matter how much you try and blend in. When I lived there, they did the same, and it took MONTHS until I blended in enough. I don’t have any advice for you since all I did was wait it out, but generally they are harmless if very annoying and threatening!!
My wife was an exchange student in northern Italy. She is a beautiful brunette. She said the men would basically cat call her “ Bella Bella “ she didn’t mind that so much. She traveled Europe by train to many countries and the only one she had trouble with was a French jerk who put his hand on her leg and squeezed it. She was raised in the USA and is the oldest of 7 with 4 brothers. Irish Catholic family. He was lucky to get his hand back with all the fingers. This was in 1978. I’m sure it is worse now.
Like, Italian ethnicity?
Look at this clip from an old italian movie. [https://youtu.be/aJTwt8Y6900?feature=shared&t=30](https://youtu.be/aJTwt8Y6900?feature=shared&t=30)

When I first watched this film it infuriated me because of the way women were treated throughout the entirety of the film. In  almost all  scenes it was as if these men were on the verge of raping the female characters.  Then I realized not much has changed and got even more pissed. At least nowadays women are more aware of this. Back then they thought it was "normal", cause "it's just men being men".
It’s cultural and if it really becomes bothersome -I just wear a hoodie snd baggy clothes-we can’t impose American norms (which is an oxymoron-emphasis on the moron) on ancient cultures -when in Rome & all that. Here’s a kicker-shen I was young and the Italian men were hooting and hollering I ‘dressed down’ and was annoyed. Now I’m old and walk with a cane and when the men do this to my beautiful daughter?! I sklznk them in the ankles with it and yearn for the days I didn’t fade into the wallpaper
That happened to me also. I was so mad, I got on the next train, vowing not to return to Italy. Fast forward.....my husband is from there and I couldn't have married a better guy. So, not all Italian men are dogs. Give it another chance, honest inland. Bon volo!
Italian men are very forward. I met a Napoli man, one of those when in Rome moments, and we hung out at the park in broad daylight. He wanted to go to the hotel with me and willing to skip work. I said no numerous times and I honestly loved busting his egotistic bubble. He got frustrated at the end that he didn't get what he wanted. \*SHRUG\*

He tried to reason with me and said that American women usually have sex with Italian men cause you know, its romanticize. It's common for them to seek out tourists (especially women) to hook up with cause it's easy. They have a mindset of "i'll never see you again anyways." 

  
I guess next time, tell them they stink, cause most of the men there were stinky. My nose took so much abuse.
I feel like having a buzzcut and wearing boyish clothing was what kept men away from me last fall when I had a quick stop in Italy. I'd love to go again but now that I have longer hair again and would probably wear more revealing clothing due to the summer heat, I'm already dreading it. I'd curious though if it's as bad in the countryside as it is in the cities.
I was in Lake Como and there were a group of police men standing outside the train station. I watched them from a distance as they stood and STARED at each woman walking by, up and down, quite literally and very obviously checking them out. I was a bit shocked considering they are supposed to make you feel safe and protected, but they actually made me feel terribly uncomfortable to walk past. Gross!
not me planning an italy trip next summer (not alone
but with other women) and now reconsidering………
Draw a Mario mustache with a marker on your face. It will deter
I went to Italy with a friend a couple years ago. We were taking a train to Florence and an old man had sat across from us and would not stop staring at us. Ended up noticing he had not only a hard on, but his pants were getting wet.
I had the same thing happen to me with the pictures all the time in Mexico! Especially if I was in a bikini it was so bizarre
Back in the day, my mom lived in Italy and she said she was followed home regularly.
Cut your spaghetti!
I mean, there's a reason there's a stereotype about Italian men. They're aggressive sexually and really hard to shake off because they're stubbord and arrogant.
Out of curiosity are you in southern Italy? I hear it’s more pervasive there but I just want to make sure 
[removed]
It’s Italy. Comes with the territory.
Start to running in the opposite direction and shout for help. It might scare them and think you are crazy.

Or start to pick boogers
Just be careful and keep your head on swivel
Tell them you think cream and garlic is authentic in carbonara.
What city is this?
Me and my brother, both 6ft had at least one person start following us. I saw him and then he walked into a shop, I waited and he sort of just lingered in the shop. Oh and another random bloke started following us on a different holiday but I think he was mentally handicapped. Still, not cool. I'd find being followed a lot very uncomfortable! Idk what the solution is but so far so good I hope in terms of risk.
Drink a cappuccino after dinner
When traveling in Italy. The emergency number is 10013. I just now ask my ECHO.
Yelling out a couple of vowels may help...A O A O
Just gross, I guess I have to be careful for my friends from these pigs while traveling, good to know thanks
I was reading this in shock: honestly, Italy is my favorite country in the world, I have solo traveled all over and maybe catcalled once or twice but never been frightened or unsafe.  Then I remembered…I’m 6’ tall and athletic, so the men there are at 1/2 foot shorter!!  Also, even though I was 35 when I first went, that was literally half a lifetime ago, so the interest has decreased exponentially as the years passed. 🤣🤣 Anyway,I guess my suggestion is Grow taller, grow older and you won’t have to worry about 🤷‍♀️
As a guy who had a trip to italy with school as 16year old. We had a day where we would jump into the ocean near venice. There was a group of 10 guys who stopped whatever they were doing to stare at the 16 year old girls in bikini and talked to eachother about it. So even as a guy i agree
Ah, it's ridiculous. I had someone being super creepy, following me around, trying to take a photo *with* me without me noticing - in Paris. Not the sort of city I would associate with this kind of behaviour. I grew up in a country where this sort of behaviour was common enough that I mostly just learned to keep myself safe and ignore the creeps, but I live in the UK now and I can't really think of a single time I had a situation like this here... So the event in Paris really took me by suprise. I gave him a dirty look and a wtf, but didn't call him out beyond that. I regret that, I really should have.
I went on a date with an American Italian and he had his hands down my pants after dinner and I was like hell no!! Wtf - this happens in San Francisco too. Never will I date an Italian like wtf!?
I took my nieces to Italy, they’re all pretty but one of them (age 14) has waist length blonde hair and we had to form a phalanx around her to stop men from trying to touch her.  I even had to kick a couple of them, absolutely miserable experience.
This is nice suggestion
Just scream : Attenzione borseggiatrici.
I’m a male currently solo travelling in Italy and honestly sometimes I think I’m invisible… 

Tie your hair up and dress like a dude I guess?
Ive had that experience in addition to Italy also in Greece.
I’ve lived there and that has happened to me since I was very young. I don’t fit the description either but I was a second generation with “tanned” skinned. I would get followed and asked out in front of peers because “I looked grown” or because they want to think that.
I had the same experience. I’m racially ambiguous and was followed around and gawked after the entire time in Florence. Rome not so much. I was also surprised by the amount of men that asked to take photos with me?? Like what? No!
This is something I encountered the very first time I came to Italy, almost 30 years ag. My then gf, a tallish blue-eyed blonde, got hit on like a couple of times a day when she was with me but it all seemed in a sort of a joking way. She told me it was much worse when she was out on the town without me. That was in the North.  
I've been to Italy a lot of times since and every time I'm with a girl, it's the same story. As a guy I look at it as a weird Italian quirk. I'm not sure I'd enjoy the country half as much if I were a girl.
Kinda same in Turkey, tell them you don’t want whatever they want, to talk to take a picture and then ignore them and keep walking and don’t react anymore, that’s how I did it till they left, if they still keep on, talk loud to them to leave you alone if people are around so that they will feel embarrassed, act like you’re talking to someone on the phone or in worst case as if you call the police or threaten with calling them if they don’t leave you alone, this should actually do the trick. Or say something do something that will disgust them off like you have diarrhea and no time to talk cause you really gotta take a big shit rn and then leave quick. Just be rude at the end tbh lol, don’t smile at them don’t look scared , give them the better not piss me off, stay out off my way look while doing the above good look, worked for me😋
I had this situation solo travelling in Italy and walking to Roma Termini. Most of them are just looking for a reaction so the best thing is to keep walking and ignore it. Maybe find some authority figure to scare them off too? Also, I like to follow the advice of acting crazy when they get too near, bark at them, scream, flail your arms about… anything to that extent! No one will remember you doing it by the next day so there’s no harm done
traveled to half of europe alone and even been in south america. no where was the harassment and the men so bad as in rome. most i had were THREE men approaching me persistently during ONE phone call i had outside. italy has some serious problem with their men.
Don’t say hello to anyone as you’re passing, and don’t smile at strangers. My family is from Italy, and my cousin always tells us when we visit that in Italy, any smiles or hello from foreign women means that they’ll get harassed and followed (because the smiles and hellos mean we want to sleep with the men). It’s really annoying, especially if you come from a culture where making eye contact and saying hello as you walk be people is just considered common courtesy.
Grew up going to Italy and they are some
Of the more aggressive men I’ve come
Across. I would not be surprised if it has gotten worse with social
Media somehow don’t ask me to explain that plz lol
Men suck. Everywhere. In some countries they are more bold. Pepper spray.
Italy is the only place I’ve ever insulted a man to make him leave me alone. I’m used to North America where we are so scared a man will get violent when rejected (because we’ve all experienced some sort of aggression when saying ‘no thanks’). So we have to be extremely polite to men’s advances.

But literally, in Italy, after 10+ minutes of saying ‘no’, I had to look the man up and down and tell him I didn’t like what I saw.
Bark at them. Like a dog. I’m serious. 

Sorry you have to deal with this.
Same thing happened to me in Italy, and Im not very attractive. It’s just like that, and I’m sorry. I handled it by saying I was leaving that day, but sometimes that was scary in case they saw me another day.
Because they think they have a better chance with the tourist women who are always coming through their country. Italian men know they have a reputation for being sexy and romantic and they know a lot of tourist women do fantasize about having a tryst with them.
Maybe I’ll cancel my trip !   Well, not maybe.    I think I’ll cancel my trip.
As an Italian man I've never seen anything like that happening and I would have probably called the police on the coomers who did something like that. The few cases of stuff like this I've seen weren't perpetrated by Italians, but tbf I'd expect this kind of stuff to happen when there aren't witnesses around.    

On the other hand I got molested multiple times by grannies while on the bus or train to my uni so sadly it goes both ways.
Had the same issue while I was there. I was nearly dragged away by some guy in broad daylight, he wasn’t taking no for an answer. I just kept telling him I had family waiting for me and I had to go. Also I was in sweatpants, an oversized shirt, and my hair was in a ponytail…I wasn’t even half as pretty looking as the other girls on the street that day. My advice, convince them you have SOMEONE waiting for you somewhere. If that fails, bark😂 Honestly, I’m not sure what precautions you could take cause they don’t care what you’re wearing or what time of day it is. Just make sure your phone is always charged, call someone if you feel uncomfortable (or pretend to be on the phone with someone), maybe make sure your friends or family have your location, and also alwayssss make it seem to others that you aren’t alone.
Hmm was considering a move to Italy , now thinking twice !
Yes. Be super careful traveling solo as a woman in Italy. I had the exact same experience.
Shocker
Men don’t like to be called out on their shitty behavior so I do this as loud as possible “why do you want to rape me??? WHY??? Why do you want to hurt me??? WHY ARE YOU FOLLOWING ME? WHY ARE YOU STALKING ME?? WHAT?? YOU WANT TO SUCK HIS DICK OUT IN PUBLIC? WHAT?? YOURE GAY AND WANT TO KILL THE POPE”? Shouting crazy random things makes you a crazier person that they don’t want to mess with. Don’t bother being polite to someone who is invading your personal space.
Had the similar experience in Lido Venice
And men wonder why we’d pick the bear
I am italian and I tell you you miss interpretete thing because you have no clue  of Italian culture. 
Like all over the world we have In italy bad people ,rober rapist ,racist,and so on but the maggiority of people is good heart people if they are looking at you or following you is probabilly to protect you.
Yet again about Italian guys. I littarly starting to hate these guys deeeply. Like they act like they are horney baboos on crack. It's just embarresing af. I life in another country but i hear this thing so many times it's honestly so sad.
Sadly, I think it’s cultural. Some parts of Italy still hold a very objectifying idea of women. We are here in the world for their pleasure, and some men will see no issue with pursuing, following and hassling women. I have no advice. But wish you a safe rest of your trip
Ask for spaghetti Alfredo or break the pasta in half or eat pineapple pizza. Be careful.they don't call the pasta police
Put your finger in your nose like you would search for a booger. This irritates every man out there and it is certainly not attractive. You could also burp or any type on non-lady like behavior. Its worked for me many times. Or just fart. Lol.
Best advice is to carry Mace and let them have it in the face and eyes. If they touch you, use brass knuckles and be ready to cold cock them. If they get close, put a thumb in each eyeballing push until the eyes pop out. I am an American woman. I don't go around hurting anybody  I won't go to Italy ever. If I did, and a man touched me I would use my knee to cause them more pain than they can imagine
You said half of these creepy men were not actually Italian
I live in Florence, Italy. It's bad. The culture is bad here about this kind of stuff and it's honestly infuriating. Your experience is not out of the ordinary, all the female friends I have have had these kinds of experiences at least once.

It infuriates me and I'm really sorry for you.

Avoiding less crowded places when the sun sets is the only good suggestion, for how much it sucks. Train stations are the absolute worst.

Being on a phone call (fake or not) can help. I have a friend that uses an app that connects her to another random girl in the same situation but idr the name
This is a photo called 'American Girl in Italy' from 1951.  Seems things haven't changed  
  
[American Girl In Italy](http://www.grandvoyageitaly.com/uploads/3/7/2/7/37277491/edited/csm-lempertz-1050-66-photography-ruth-orkin-american-girl-in-italy-f-69c9a79720.jpg)
then all they say is "mi scusi"
As an Italian male I've gotta admit that in 2024 this is still a really chauvinist country.
You can clearly see that many men still see women as objects. Femicide is probably one of the most common news these days.
Sorry for your experience, if it makes you feel any better, even if a big part of men are like this they don't represent the majority; 
May I ask, in which part of the country are you staying? Because cities like Milan or Rome are notorious for being more unsafe for women.
which city though??
Such a racist thread, unbelievable
Let's generalise Italian men as a monolith like it is done with Indian men! Totally not racist and sexist!
[removed]
The only creep men is the poor men.
Where does this happen? I travel around Italy once every two weeks and nothing ever happens. Are you sure they’re Italian?
Just eat more pizza and pasta to look fat and ugly to put them off
Italy is the worst; it’s full of misogynistic men
I find this impossible to comprehend or believe.
Men have always been creeps. At best.  There are still large pockets of them. As a man, I know these things.
[removed]
"taking a picture of themselves with me"

They might use your face for deepfakes.
how do u Italian girls deal with Italian men then?

solutions u use
I was with my GF at the time in a Sicilian outdoor market checking out random stuff. My GF was checking out bras at a stall. My gf asked the guy if he had like a medium or something (idk how sizes works on bras lol), and the guy says, "No no! Large!" And he holds his hands over his chest to gesture large breasts and points at her breasts. She got cat called a lot there. An Italian woman told us that it's pretty common.
Every Italian woman I’ve met is smart, beautiful, interesting, hardworking etc. Italian men just don’t measure up in my experience 🤷‍♀️. Not even close.
A lesbian italian girl probabilly
Itsa me, Maria
Lmao what an amazing idea
[removed]
I am a short guy with long hair, and regularly get ma'am'd even with a full beard

Some people have their horny goggles on too tight to notice obvious things like facial hair, let alone visible discomfort :(
Not sure it would work I heard European men don’t mind hairy.
Nice try Mr. Miyamoto
[deleted]
Something very similar to this happened to me yesterday, a large group of them in Reggio Emilia, followed me for a bit on bikes for a while and trying to back me into corners. I’m sorry you experienced this too:(
my reply probably woulve been " only if you suck mine first"
Jesus Christ this is insane. What city was this in?
That’s awful and, I’m sorry that happened to you. How did you get away from them if you, don’t mind my, asking?
The fuck
Ew
[deleted]
What a fantastic idea !   SKUNK !
hand sanitizer spray does a good job of repellent
I mean… we do..?
Can o' fart spray.
I’ve experienced this in Milan. And much worse, unfortunately 😔
Emilia Romagna region, I just wanna see some Ferraris damnit😭
Same. I went 10+ yrs ago with a friend and didn’t experience this at all. And ngl, I was in my prime and have always done very well in that dept so I dont think if was lack of attractiveness. idk, maybe things have changed? 🫠
Nice
Convincing fart noises from phone or pocket might also work. Make sure to adjust position before letting one out 
I absolutely adore Austria, my grandparents are Austrians so Austria holds a very dear place in my heart, and whenever I’ve traveled there I’ve had a great experience. Recommend to anyone!!
18 years ago, I went to Italy for senior spring break, freshly 18. It was insane how forward all the men were. There was one guy I gave my email address to that I hung out with for one night in Florence. A couple weeks ago, this guy sends me a text, including a picture of us in front of the duomo in Florence. How the f did he get my phone number?? 18 YEARS later. Like seriously, Italian men are next level.
That’s terrible. 😞 

It’s awful that women have to go through that bullshit. 😞
This is the way. “Basta” may work well for pushy street vendors, but “vaffanculo” works best for creepy men.
Unfortunate truth. They don't respond to subtlety, and it only engages the idea of the  _chase_.


Aggressive. Curt. Loud. Gets them to back off. You observe what Italian women do - they get loud and fucking in their face. You do that
Yeah same, travelled round Europe and the only place I really felt creeped out was in Rome with all the Italian men saying seedy thing s
I tried this, it feels like they keep pushing and it’s difficult when they keep following you down a street:(
Yep when visiting some European countries, I would end up being quite agressive with some men as they wouldn't take no for an answer and they would be like: "No need to be angry."

Oh yes, mister, very need to be angry, because you're a douche.
Holy shit I remember when I was younger a boy from Italy named Yolo or something harassed me at school 😬😬
Oktoberfest in general is a nightmare
Go on
That must have been when I went (in 1993).
I’m American and Bavarian’s at the fest? Quel beasts once they start lapping up the mas!
Funny hearing that because in the states, the women fantasize about Italian men. At least on social media
I’ve traveled a lot and only have gotten sexually assaulted on French subways unfortunately. Never in Italy.
My aunt and cousin were in Turkey and my cousin was constantly harrassed by the men there. Constantly asking my aunt if they can marry her, following them, even one time my aunt had to leave a store to get cash and they suggested my cousin (who was 16 at the time I think) stay with them
Oh, creepy men harass other men too. If someone looks remotely feminine it does not matter if they have facial hair, deep voice, no bust - speaking from experience.

If I had a coin for every time I got catcalled or some horny creep started coming on to me and would not even take obvious visual cues of maleness as a cause they'd done fucked up in picking a victim - I'd have enough to pay for my own body guard. Violating doesn't begin to cover it.

Including the guy who touched my face, told me to shave my beard off, groped me repeatedly, and was wholly committed to convincing himself that I was a closeted trans women. 

The next time I'm yelling back that I'm not into pederasty, 'No homo!!', or something similar. Because I cannot legally shove someone's balls into a meat grinder.

It's the creeps that are the problem, and they do go after other men. :(
[deleted]
Umm
One time I told a guy to fuck off (in Russia, not Italy, but still), and he hit me on the head
I tried it once and the man threw a glass bottle at me 😔
Not good advice to be aggressive or rude as the wrong person could get angry/violent. Better to politely say you're married or have a boyfriend, ignore, and keep walking.
This!!! It’s the stares, like you’re a piece of meat. It’s northern Italy I’m in as well, so it explains it really
Clearly, you have not been to Morocco yet.
I experienced the same with the staring!! It’s crazy. You described it perfectly
To be fair Italians can be quite starey with people who stand out in general, not only women (compared to other cultures)
Man here, when İ was in Italy as a tourist, a bit insecure and lost but nobody cared lol.
^[Sokka-Haiku](https://www.reddit.com/r/SokkaHaikuBot/comments/15kyv9r/what_is_a_sokka_haiku/) ^by ^donbun69:

*Im starting to think*

*Italians are doing this*

*To keep tourists away*

---
^Remember ^that ^one ^time ^Sokka ^accidentally ^used ^an ^extra ^syllable ^in ^that ^Haiku ^Battle ^in ^Ba ^Sing ^Se? ^That ^was ^a ^Sokka ^Haiku ^and ^you ^just ^made ^one.
Vaffanculo is also appropriate in those situations.
The fact it’s northern Italy on quite a few of these responses solidifies it:(
[deleted]
Jesus, I’m sorry this happened:( I had something similar on a train too, where he kept touching my hair and sniffing me asking about my perfume :/ truly weird
The fuuuuuuck?
One time, my friends and I met this random dude at a hostel. 
He asked to join our group for the museum.
He pulled his phone during the tour and started showing pics with different girls, talking about everything they did blablabla. 

We all told him to drop that shit, we don't fucking care, we don't believe you.

He was so pissy after that.
I believe that. I don't even want pictures of myself when I travel; no way some rando is getting one.

I do go to a lot of music festivals in funky/cool/wild clothes, and very occasionally someone wants a picture with me if they love my outfit or are wearing something kinda similar/matching. It's a community I'm quite familiar and comfortable with, so there's a possibility of me going with it in that case.
Don't see the appeal of that, the creep didn't get to sleep with you and you're being labeled as a "whore" possibly 🤷
I didn’t even think of this :( makes me feel sick to my stomach
Men that can’t control themselves are the most unlikable of all. They may as well be wearing a sign that says I am an A*hole.
Wild, I spent a few months in Madrid and had the opposite experience. I found the men to be really nice and no one ever bothered me. The only creep I ran into happened to be an Italian at a club lol
The only men harassing and chasing me in 36 years living in Spain were foreigners, and usually when chased I'd go to any random group of Spanish people and they always helped. Maybe back in the 90s, but in the last 20 years Spanish society has become very intolerant of sexism.
I got on the metro in Barcelona and at the next stop a man got on, sat across from me, pulled out his penis and started masturbating. Horrifying.
Of course it is not all Italian men, and there have been some very kind gentlemen when I’ve been to eat, which has made me feel better! Your girlfriend’s work is so important, she sounds like an absolute gem
I have to question where all these decent Italian gentlemen go when there are so men are harassing women in public. Every single incident I’ve had in Italy was in plain view with plenty of people around. They all just ignore it happening. I’ve been told I was overreacting to being groped on a train. From an outsider’s perspective it really seems like Italian people generally don’t view this kind of harassment as a big deal.
Why is that
Joke's on you, I'm into that shit
This better not awaken anything in me…
You might get sectioned...
well, Italian men tend to fein for tall blonde woman. most others are ignored, as a short brunette, for the most part, I can confirm. I went to other countries and got cat-called or harassed plenty. its all dependent on the beauty standards of said country. however most attention is unwanted so I was grateful I got ignored.
quite honestly, it's an overrated country. Nice things to see, do, and eat, but the drawbacks are underreported and there are even nicer things to do, see, and eat in other countries as well.
honestly.. no one wants to say it but there are so many cons traveling in Italy. There are beautiful things to see but I wouldn’t mind never going again.
Most countries via Reddit comments are. 

For most normal people who know how to travel and aren’t completely oblivious, it’s great.
Oh damn, sorry about that. Was it Brussels? Never encountered any pushy men outside of Brussels, but maybe I’ve just been lucky growing up in Flanders.
It’s definitely an issue in the US, too. It’s just a little better since we have become more outspoken against it and there were campaigns a bit ago. Italy is more traditional as a whole and generally a few years behind on stuff like that (like women’s right to vote, as an example). American tourists are going to be more likely to complain about the issue than tourists visiting America from places where the behavior is common and not condemned.
People talk shit because we’re the biggest and most popular and always in the news. The world doesn’t hear about anything short of a war if it happens in most countries but if someone calls someone else a dork in America it’s world news. 

Having traveled most places America prob has the least amount of public creeps and scam artists etc. these people get called out and shamed instantly here so it’s pretty rare.
Cool but why did you have to bring the US into this? 

It doesn't happen in countless other countries too
It’s not happening in most of the US because most people exclusively drive everywhere. Go to any walkable place and you’ll see it happen plenty.
Gonna have to order a big tatted boyfriend by mail!
This is probably an unpopular/non-PC opinion, but the guy is probably on the spectrum
It’s possible these people think I’m German or something then, I’m in the Emilia Romagna region and I have a scouse (Liverpudlian) accent, which is quite harsh and can sound pretty Germanic to people who aren’t familiar with it. It’s sad that they think we’re here for this, I just want to see cool cars at museums!!
North
This is probably quite true. I am quite alternative looking and I definitely feel as if I stick out like a sore thumb. People would tell me to not do my makeup as I do it usually but of course, I don’t think it’s right to even HAVE to do that. Although I probably will to keep myself safe
Half and half. Some have been quite obviously Italian in terms of language and looks, others were groups of black men who spoke French. Maybe this is relevant? I’m not sure, but I don’t want to say it was foreigners of Italy entirely because it definitely wasn’t
Do a picture search on google about ‚american girl in italy‘ its a semi famous picture from the 1950s (i think maybe older) 

Unfortunately nothing new :(
Me thinking the same thing 🫠
Northern, it sounds like this is a problem across all of Italy:(
Hello, I'm having a very hard time translating your comment to metric, when you are saying they were 1/2 foot shorter you mean like 5,8 or 5,9 you mean half the big number so 5,5  or you mean either a full feet or two like you are saying they were 5 feet and even 4 feet.
Sorry I'm just trying to understand your Expression as I'm not used to work with imperial measurements and the way is worded is tricky for me.

Thank you
I’m in Modena, but have visited Bologna and Reggio Emilia and have experienced the same in all three places, particularly Reggio Emilia. I found things got better when I went to a very small town today, people were actually very friendly!
Wrong.


"As an italian male" you know nothing. Of course you are wrong: you are italian, you don't read the data.


Just read the international statistics, rather than big titles in the newspapers, come on.


Italy has among the LOWEST violent crime rates in the developed countries. Especially those against women. And it's still getting better every year.






Full stop.
Modena, Bologna, Reggio Emilia. Reggio Emilia was the worst for it I found
I’m quite literally just telling my experiences here. The fact that it is nearly every minute or so down a street is very concerning, I know it is most definitely not all Italian men, but does it not worry you that it is this many?
Or..it’s Italian men lol. Why try to divert the blame? Go to travestere in Rome and you’ll know what OP is talking about. They’re super creepy.
Now you just made Italians look racist *and* sexist.
so what we're not gonna do is comment unhelpful, borderline victim-shaming nonsense like this
Oh god:( this is awful. I managed to leave quite quickly after this had happened so I’m not even sure what they’d do with this photo? Someone mentioned that they keep these photos to brag to others about sleeping with me or something along those lines
I genuinely don't understand why you're getting downvoted.   
Deepfakes are already a method to harass and blackmail women, such as faux revenge p0rn. There's nothing wrong with being aware of it as a possibility and a reason to be stern about your photo being taken.  
  
AI has come a lot farther than a few years ago, it has gotten a lot more sophisticated than people realize, and it isn't slowing down.
I don't understand why you're getting downvoted.
Nonsense, why would you do that when it's much easier to just take all the pictures from someone Instagram if your goal is to make deepfakes
Oh damn, wouldn't have ever thought about that. That's a creepy thought. Even thinking about it as a man...
What on earth is a deepfake?
Italian girl as well:

First, be or make yourself look ugly.
That usually does it cause open body shaming and body-based categorisation is still very strong in Italy (ie. Some people, men and women, when they get into a relationship, do actually consider the shame of dating someone ugly/fat/hairy/short/too skinny etc…).
Act weird/do not engage in conversation ever.
If it doesn’t work and you need immediate reassurance/help, do what you were told by your parents at 6: go look for women, best if with children.
Still failing? Consider what a ridiculous underdeveloped country you’ve gotten yourself into. Pity us Italian women. Buy a bunch of pistacchio cream, nope tf out and think about it next time you eat lasagne.

Good luck 🥲
Make sure they can see you as you break long spaghetti to fit it into the pot of boiling water. Maintain strong eye contact. This kills the Italian man.
We usually just brush them off and keep on with our day (there's no risk of danger of anything bad happening, they're just annoying). Then they get upset for being ignored and resort to calling us derogatory names such as the very infamous "fighe di legno", which literally means "wooden pussies". 

If you glance at r/italia you'll find many of these guys complaining about Italian women. As I mentioned earlier, they call us "wooden pussies" because we're not interested in going out with them, having sex with them, engaging in conversation when they approach, or even smiling when they compliment us. These are the same Italian men who boast about their escapades abroad or with foreign women who come to Italy because, according to these men, foreign women are infatuated with Italian men and welcome attention on the streets unlike us Italian women.

You wouldn't believe how many times I've had discussions online with them, trying to explain that no woman enjoys being approached and followed by a stranger on the street.    
According to them, it's an issue only with us Italian women because, as they put it, we're "wooden pussies" who act all high and mighty and think we're someone special and above everyone else.   
  
They don't understand that their behavior is off-putting, stressful, and the reason why we don't want to engage with them and we prefer to stay single and keep to ourselves.

Obviously, not all Italian men are like this, my closest male friends hate these types of men and are exemplary human beings.  There are also men who step in to help when they see someone bothering you with unwanted advances.

The worrying thing is that many Italian twenty-somethings seem to be more bigoted and sexist than those of my generation (about fifteen years ago) and are increasingly subscribing to misogynistic and hateful ideas spread online from abroad (thanks to Andrew Tate and his followers). They complain so much about us Italian women and blame us for their singletude, their emotional suffering, you name it...

I'm glad I'm not in my twenties for this exact reason.
Walking around with a big and well mannered man. 

For the rest of the times ignoring mostly works! But it’s not the same for foreign girls, these scumbags know the difference..
I have some friends that are girls from the South. In my experience they usually have a very strong, "no bullshit" personality, I think it's because they have to constantly defend themselves from creepy guys and unwanted attention
peak Italian feminism on reddit
With a husband 😂 sorry
Omg 😆 
Kekekekekekekekekekekekkekekekeke😭😭😭😂😂😂😂😂
🤣🇮🇹
🤭
lmao that's fucked up
AHAHAHAH
Checks out. Most disgusting man I ever met is from there. Treated women like objects. Italian women are lovely. Feel so bad for them most of the time.
I would just bark at them. Like full on rabid barking, snarling, spit flying attack dog barking.
What if they said yes?
I’m saving this for the inevitable future encounter
wish I was this quick omg? i just speed walked away and looking back on the encounter Im more mad at myself for not going ballistic
💀
Make them an offer they can't refuse
Sevilla
Philadelphia
All of them.
Mushroom Kingdom
I literally lol’d at this, 🙏🏻 thank you
This is smart I need to get bottle
What? How
Then you’re looking for the Grand Prix next weekend, the 19th
I went 13 years ago and it was exactly like OP described
I think Redditors are well versed in the natural version.
Same, I live in a relatively nearby city. My grammar school organised regular trips to Vienna - museums and opera in the summer, museums and winter markets in winter - and I have never felt unsafe. I also did a day trip with a female friend and again, didn’t feel unsafe travelling after/before sunrise. Arriving at super early morning Vienna with the soft light hitting the beautiful beige buildings and trees is a core memory.
That's actually insane...
Have you tried digging your nose in front of them, my french teacher, she is blonde, says it works most of the time
Honestly the most important lesson I learned from solo travelling and one that I always tell other women when they ask me about travelling by themselves is to not be scared to be thought off as a bitch. If they don't wanna play nice you don't gotta either.
I loved it. You just need to go to the tents on the ends. Not the ones in the middle.
Preach! Bavarians get pretty pretty handy
So glad I’ve gone to Munich at other times.

Loved walking around and taking in the sights 😌
Iam 6 foot and wear Dirndl...do i have to get more specific?
Well in movies the Italian men are very nice and romantic .
Standard exoticism. They've never actually been to Italy more than likely
😳
I love how this is true but has only got one up vote compared to the other posts on here lol.
You equate women having to deal with men sexually accosting them on the street to men having to lift something for someone???
That’s definitely a risk. I’ve been attacked too like that. Instead of yelling “fuck off” in a place that’s foreign to you it might be better just to keep a stone cold expression, ignore comments, and if they get close to you, firmly and loudly say “leave me alone”. That usually works.
Reminds me of the would you rather be stuck in the woods with a man or a bear thing going around
I am so sorry :(
One time in Croatia, a man approached me on the dance floor and got a little handsy so I gently pushed him back a little to get him off me and he full on slapped me across the face. No one cared or even gave a second look.
Did you report him?
yeah, I experienced that in Luino when I went grocery shopping because its cheaper than in Switzerland. Due to my blond hair, the guys noticed right away I am not from there, I am also really pale. The stares were so uncomfortable that I decided to not come back their alone ever again. Its just not relaxing.
I’m an Italian male and I’ve been to Morocco with my GF and she said that she felt way more safe in the streets of Marrakech or Fes than in the streets of Milan. Way less men staring her
No but my partner has and they served him tea and fruit. 💁🏼‍♀️
Is this like the German stare?
What about ghe sboro?
So funny! When my blonde daughter was eight we went to China. So many people wanted pics with her or pics with her and their kids. Everyone was polite, never pushy and she thought it was hilarious so we went a long with it. My husband started taking pics of them taking pics with her. We have so many pics of our daughter posing beside random strangers. They never touched her, just stood beside her and smiled. Our entire family, including my daughter laugh every time we see those pics now.
My daughter and I couldn’t walk 20 feet in Karnak Temple (So worth the hours we spent there) without school groups OR SEA tourists clamoring for photos. We finally had to say no or we never would have seen the entire temple.
I’ve been to China twice, and had lots of people ask to take pictures with me. Like last time I was at the forbidden city, they actually formed a line. But they were very respectful, always asked first, and never touched me. India though was a whole other level. So many people taking pictures without asking, video calling their friends and pointing the camera at me. I even had a taxi driver film me while he was driving and I was in the back seat.
Yeah, I'm Asian so in China, i wouldn't get a second look, but i am apparently exotic in LATAM.  You got attention in China for being standout so it makes sense.
it definitely still happens in China haha, I was in Beijing a couple weeks ago and got asked a handful of times
I'm shocked, I've read the most unimaginable things in this thread jeez.
Yeah I mean I don’t think people who do this (if they’re real) care if the girl is labelled a whore, but they get a picture as “proof” they slept with you (even if they didn’t) so they can brag, I guess? No reason for you one take a pic with randos tbh
In terms of what I was wearing, it’s just been joggers and vests etc. I do have an alternative look so I’m assuming some of this is to do with that, a lot of piercings and tattoos and big winged eyeliner. It’s shitty because it makes me feel like I shouldn’t do my makeup how I like just so I can enjoy peace
*won’t control themselves
To be fair Barcelona is the most hated part of Spain, and doesn’t consider them selves even Spanish. Madrid is awesome
Tbh i think he was from the 60s, different mindset
I lived there for a while about 10 years ago and got plenty harassed by Spanish men
https://www.aljazeera.com/features/2023/9/14/spain-cuts-gang-rape-convicts-prison-term-under-botched-law


Not as much as it should be
Flashers and weirdos in every country. I was in Vegas leaving my job at the time, and some guy stood in front of me, pulled out his little stick and proceeded to masturbate in the parking lot, in broad daylight with lots of witnesses.
Next time you experience this, just stand up, point at his peepee and laugh loudly
This is true really, especially is confined spaces such as a train, I found that everyone watched the interaction but never ever said or did anything
Maybe most of them do. But not all men are like this. Think about Berlusconi. Prime minister for many many years, he represented the country, destroyed the country, made his bunga bunga almost something to be proud of. He got away after being accused of having sex with a minor.

And yet the Vatican in Rome make Italy a very conservative country. So many contradictions in a such a beautiful place...

The whole culture in Italy is pretty bad about this, but luckily there are some decent people out there.

Sorry you had bad experiences.
Cultural differences. I can only speak my personal opinion, but in southern med more than elsewhere, men are very coddled by their mothers, esp in Italy and Greece. There’s also a very strong presence/ influence of catholicism (or Greek orthodox in Greece) which tends to reaffirm patriarchal values re: household and traditional gender roles. This can condition men into a sort of entitlement, where they think being assertive and domineering is typical/ expected of their masculinity. This isn’t helped by fathers who praise their sons for promiscuity as a positive trait (a sign of their virility, which has been prized of men for thousands of years in Italy and Greece specifically). It’s all a stereotype of course, which doesn’t apply to all men (and is dying out slowly in more progressive generations).. but stereotypes still speak to some reality.
Read the thread. There are dozens of women here that have first hand experience of inappropriate behavior. Honestly, I didn’t have issues in other parts of southern Europe, but in the 60 countries I’ve visited, Italian men were by far the most forward.
Y'all are hilarious.
You could just squawk loudly, flap your wings and run away. I’m sure that acting goofy in public wouldn’t be seen as reason to section someone by a healthcare professional’s assessment, especially if you’re not causing harm to anybody and running away from what could potentially cause you harm.
I’m a 5”7 black haired alternative looking girl, so I’m not sure I fit in at all with this category, but a lot of men fetishise this look so maybe it’s just heightened with the fact that Italian men can be scumbags
True, for one the summers are literally killing people. Never again am I spending my summer in Tuscany. We rented an old house, traditional stone construction. It was 37 degrees inside at night, the “cold” water was always hot. Everything was dry and dusty. Towns felt like ovens and every piece of civilisation looked a little dirty and a little run down. The rusty highway guardrails are iconic.
It was Brussels! I was at the Midi station waiting for a Flix bus and he wouldn't stop pestering me. He followed me around and got aggressive when I said I wasn't interested. 
Also experienced this in Leige when I was at the train station a creep was not-so-subtly taking photos of me
America's issues to be fair also tend to be harsher for people who live here in some ways, compared to tourists visiting the US. Pickpockets and scams and street harassment are infrequent compared to some other countries but healthcare, standard of living, protections for workers, accessibility of higher ed, gun violence, etc tend to be not as strong statistically in the US as other wealthy countries. But those issues have more of an impact on US locals and don't necessarily impact tourists, beyond tourists sometimes seeing signs of the US's social disparities. 

Other than the US being expensive to visit, culture shock, and (I imagine) border crossings being annoying depending on nationality, it sounds like visiting here as a tourist can be really fun.
Yeah, that’s not remotely true. You don’t see that in small towns or major cities. I’ve lived all over the country.
They are pretty useful for other stuff too, its not just another one of those things you order online that just sits around taking up space. Just gotta make sure to shake the cat hair and crumbs out of his beard before you go out lol
Alright, just wanted to know. I am living most of the year in Italy, northern Italy (Torino, Milano), and had such problems only with North Africans and Romanians, not so often luckily.
Great photo, but the photographer admitted it was staged.
I know that photograph!  Great example you brought there.
Yeah, we Yankees still use imperial. But as a world traveler I have a conversion app!!  I am 183 cm and Italian men (especially in the south) are usually 168-170. I hope that helps!  And yes, I’m very tall for a woman but believe it or not, I know some who are taller.
damn... i am going to milan alone this summer, i hope i will be safe
Confirmation bias. You're more than likely ignoring the abundant Italian men that aren't like that and are legitimately good people.
I think the sex trafficking is a bit extreme especially in country with plenty of undocumented refugees they can take advantage off, why risk an international incident with a tourist? 


But now with AI I would wonder if they are not taking my photo to edit it on a porn video. There are just so many ways to digitally abuse people now that I don't agree to a photo with a complete stranger anymore. 
I don't know how these men think. I'm just suggesting a possibility, hence "might." I do appreciate how sure you are.

In my field, being 100% sure is not a good thing.
Look up that video of the girl on the beach from last summer, and she was wearing clothes a sundress and with her boyfriend. Surrounded by a crowd of men and boys just standing there with nothing better to do. So disturbing. If they had decided to gang up, those tourists would have been overpowered. It wasn’t flattering at all but very scary.
It's using computers to create pictures or videos using someone else's body or face. With modern image generation anyone can create realistic photos with a single image of a person's face.

I'm not sure why they would bother doing it with a random tourist though. Usually they would use the face of someone they know. Or a scammer will make pictures and use them to extort someone, but you need the contact information of the person for that one, so it won't work with a tourist. And if you had their contact information you could just use a photo from one of their social media pages.
This was a wild ride towards the middle but, I stayed for the ending and, I’m still discombobulated. 😹😭🤣😹
American here. Never been to Italy but it’s wild hearing this is how it is there. This makes me wonder if that’s why Italian women are known for not taking crap?

Random but a few years ago I was at a bachelorette party and I met two Italian men who now live in the U.S. They were talking to my friends and I got the vibe they wanted to hook up with them. I don’t drink and wanted to protect my friends because I knew they were both drinking. I wasn’t rude to the men but I made it clear I wasn’t going to let my friends go with them and I was suspicious of them. One guy said something in Italian to his friend and the other guy said, “My friend said look at your facial expressions, you act like an Italian girl.” It made me wonder about why Italian women supposedly act that way.
Here’s an idea….https://www.instagram.com/reel/C4ZL8zCPTY1/?igsh=eGRhZmRyMHBqczJ1
Pineapple your Pizza

Tell them French food is twice as good as Italian cuisine 

Insult their mama
I not only break them so they’ll fit in the pot, I break them into snack-sized pieces so I can eat my spaghetti comfortably with a spoon.
You mean noodles, right?
That’s absolutely the worst thing you can do
Tell them their Mama’s Marinara isn’t good
that's a great answer & insight. thank you.

Good only some Italian men are like this.

They call you "wooden p#ssies".

You girls should call them "spongy d#cks" (because they aren't hard like wooden d#cks)
Sadly this sounds like 20 something men worldwide. Every generation has a struggle with them.
Having an husband dose not mean you are straight. 
But sure you have a man problem .if your husband is cripy dose not mean all italian are ....
🥸
Now we know why the birth rate is plummeting.  Who in their right mind would look at mouthbreathers like that and think yeah, that's good father material right there.
In fact I am Italian and I married a foreign man.
I know it’s not funny but this imagery and imagining myself doing it always makes me laugh!
Can confirm, this works. Have not tried it in Italy though

Edit: I just realized we're a li'l pack of doggies right here!   :)
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HnKmwbVpRno
then you backed yourself into a corner there is no coming back from lol.  As i wrote this I instantly though of "jokes on you thats my kink"
don’t be mad at yourself! u got outta that situation & that is all that matters
Its called farting
Haha I know! I’m here for that too, I’m here for a few weeks
username checks out
Wow, nice tip!
TIL what a Dirndl is.
> do i have to get more specific?

yes, please
Yeah, I did tell him to leave me alone first though. In retrospect, it's probably better to just not say anything so that he loses interest.
Well, in Russia domestic violence is legal.
I was going to say, the northern ones have German influence mixed in. 

I have lived in Germany on and off and honestly don’t notice people staring, but I’ve been told they do indeed stare at me when I speak. I like that the German stare is perfectly reserved. Just mindlessly observing, no threat or deside behind it.
Never been to Germany so I can't really compare it xD
That happened to me in Malaysia when I was 19. Random people even women would run up to me and want photos with me. I had bleach blonde hair, was skinny as a stick and had a lip piercing.
I think banging a tourist chick is a bragging point in their social circles?
You understand that the law was meant to make penalties harsher, right? It was just very badly made because the Ministry of Equality, led by people who aren't lawyers, has no business writing laws. And after the whole fiasco they fixed it.
good point. that's definitely apart of it too lmao
This is why I made sure I did not have to stop at Brussels midi. Took a train straight to central & then straight to Bruges then back to the airport.
[removed]
Oh yeah. I live here. Not talking about all our issues. I just meant people visiting. Everyone that has ever visited me, and granted I’m around NYC so it’s many travelers first stop, was so shocked about how friendly everyone is and how helpful people are and how safe everything was compared to all the horror stories they see on world news back at home.
Maybe you haven’t seen it but that doesn’t mean it doesn’t happen all the time. I saw it personally happen to my girlfriend easily 15 different times.

You kind of sound like a dick so let’s make sure you know you’re wrong:

https://m.youtube.com/watch?v=b1XGPvbWn0A

https://www.reddit.com/r/AskNYC/comments/npxoha/why_is_catcalling_so_prevalent_here/

https://www.instagram.com/catcallsofnyc/?hl=en

https://www.reddit.com/r/chicago/comments/vpfw0i/how_do_you_handle_men_cat_calling_you_on_the/

https://www.nytimes.com/2019/11/27/us/chicago-college-student-killed-catcall.html

https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Street_harassment (25% of men and 65% of women reported having been the victims of street harassment in their lives. 41% of women and 16% of men said they had been physically harassed in some way, such as by being followed, flashed, or groped.)
My confusion was more in the sense of translating 1/2 as 1 or 2 or 0.5 really.

That makes sense thank you.
It's just straight up paranoia at this point.

You cannot generate a convincing deepfake with only one picture
Thanks for your response. 

Loving the downvotes for asking a question. Classic reddit.
I think those guys saying that to you fits with what that the person above you were saying. Didn't know Italy was like that.. what a shame
She said she wants to get them off her back, not get herself killed.
Parmesan on seafood pasta
Tell them French wine is superior to Italian wine!
I'm Spanish and even I feel the pain of the second sentence.
I was with you but, I think that last one will make them attack her. 💀
I wish Reddit still let us give awards. You deserve one for this
They're letting us do awards again! So here ya go!
We in Taiwan put pig blood on pizza and it must have killed them
And... order cappuccino after 3pm.. you will be left well alone!
I’m mad I’ve never tried this
O\_\_\_O
Same!
How do you do it? Seems like a lot of work.
😲😡
Well, you just made me burst out laughing!   
Thank you ukSurreyGuy, I needed that good chuckle today :)
I don’t think you got the point of my comment but if you did and decided to ignore it that’s on you ahah I think we found one of the creeps!
Never been to India yet I guess :-D
But totally agree, that’s a disgrace.
Waff waff waff waff waff waff!
Yeah, that's why I'm afraid of giving sassy responses - anything threatening or gross I try to say might end up being something that creep is into 😅 Also, the last thing I need is to bring any more images of contact with me of any sort into their minds lol I just undignifiedly nope out 😩
I can’t fart at will like that
My bowels checked out this morning.
Also sleep on the grass not on the statue or the police will wake you up
My Dekolleté is pretty much on every Italien guys height...my boobs had a lot of interesting conversations
That’s very scary. It can be dangerous out there for us.
So this German stare is just looking at the person who you're talking to?
If I'm ever in Brussels again that's what I'm going to be doing! 
Is that why Italian men are so creepy? Cause they’re imported from a country where women are worth less than camels? 🤡
Well they hear about all our shootings which makes sense because to them one shooting would be horrific much less the tolerance certain Americans have for multiples . 

The truth though is that unless you’re in a bad area , or involved in the drug trade the odds of being involved in a shooting are low , just not European low
I’m a dick because I’m stating a well supported opinion that other countries have a worse problem than we do in the US?

Good on you for letting this continue to happen to your partner. Have you tried stepping in?
Best explanation I have heard for why we don't talk about it as much in the States, by Slate's Hanna Rosin back in 2014, and I'd argue it's even more true today:

"Catcalling has always been an uncomfortable feminist issue because of the class and race dynamics involved," Rosin said Friday in an interview with NPR's Here & Now. "And that's a much more difficult conversation to have than the straight forward one of look at this woman being harassed looking down the street."

This quote was actually in direct response to how some people noticed the race and class of the harassers in your first video.
LOL!  Old typewriters used to have a one-half key that allowed you to type the fraction, I forget a lot of ppl don’t use that anymore either.
You didn’t know one of the most macho and latin countries in the world was like that? People are so shielded lol
Omg...
It is though
It's the thought that counts 🫶🏼
Strong northern europeean hands.
MI SCUZZI MAMMARY MIA!
You need this: https://images.app.goo.gl/47nH6stgbGqEthP68
If you live in Germany what would you recommend as places to visit during a one week solo trip.
Pics or it didn’t happen
No, more like absent-mindedly stating at strangers like you would stare at an interesting ad. Or sometimes consciously staring at a person while they stare back.
That and just other random things. Still that’s my point. We don’t hear anything about other countries. The world sees everything about ours.
[deleted]
Pretty much 😅
Salzburg,  Megan  Bozen...lake constance
Yes? Why are you surprised?
A hard reality: The vast majority of people aren’t as interested in hearing you play the piano as you are of hearing yourself play the piano. That’s okay!
I’ve spent a lifetime playing the piano and performing in many different settings. It’s fun to receive compliments and make others feel the way you feel about the music.

But 99.99% of the time, the relationship is between you and that piano. It’s for your ears only and others may never feel what you’re trying to express. You may never receive the validation you might be expecting.

Of course there are always exceptions and there are plenty of pianists who are famous. But the vast majority of us aren’t famous. 

Don’t play the piano to impress other people. Play the piano because it’s the only way you know how to communicate to yourself how you really feel. That alone is a beautiful thing.
I play jazz, passionately. I once heard that “the reward for playing jazz is playing jazz.” Makes a lot of sense to me. I love it anyway.
I appreciate the sentiment.  As an old guy, I experienced it learning the drums over the last seven years.  Now as a new pianist, I’m getting certainly mixed enthusiasm..  Eyes on the prize is certainly the best motivation.  Thank you for sharing.
I basically agree with your comment.  I played publicly a lot in my 20s when I was studying the piano and the organ.  I served as a church organist for a while as a side job.  You're generally correct that most people don't notice your playing or they might be vaguely impressed by some technical feat but not emotionally moved by it.  Occasionally, someone would be really moved but not often.

I'm in my 40s now and haven't played publicly for probably 6 years.  I'm playing the best I've ever played and enjoying it the most ever.  So much of my focus in the past was on what I thought people wanted to hear.  Now I just play what I want to hear.  Some of my interpretations are probably unpopular, but who cares I like them.
Yeah you can divide audiences into a few general categories:

1. Most people who just don't notice or care (no disrespect to them btw)
2. Friends/family, might sometimes sort of pretend to care, but just being nice. Nothing wrong with this.
3. Other musicians, who are actually interested, but often more in a self-interested way like "how can I learn and build my own skills by listening to this person"; often, you, the reader, are this person
4. The .01% that actually are "moved", which could be for a number of reasons, for instance it could be a kid or young adult who's legit never been exposed to the type of music you're playing (this might be less common now than when I was younger), or just a legit happenstance occurrence, like some soul was just ready to appreciate something beautiful that day and you played well.
Very true, although that 0.01% can be worth it and result in great friends. People like recognizable music, and if you play something niche and are lucky to have someone in the audience who knows this niche music, it can be instant connection that is hard to describe. It’s very rare though.     

For example, if I hear non Eastern European person play old Soviet cartoon music, I’m certainly stopping to talk to them.
Some very established musician was once asked: "who is the music for? The player or the listener?" 

He thought about it for a moment and replied: "music is always for the listerner. But the player is the first and most important listener."
I feel the same way. I do enjoy performing and playing with my son (concert guitarist) and other people I’m close to. It is a very personal thing. I always tell my students (and parents) that the most important aspect of playing piano has to be a strong personal desire. When I read about the lives of famous composers and performers I have the feeling they shared the same strong desire, a great personal relationship with the instrument.
Your post comes at an interesting time for me. I’ve been learning piano for five years now, can play some cool stuff. But, appart from posting some videos of me playing for friends and family, I never played « live ». That was until last week. My dad is 90 and will likely die before the end of the year. When he was young, in his 20’s, he played music (jazz) and my love of music comes from him. So there was this family gathering for him, and I resolved to play him some music and after just two pieces, he was like « that’s cool, go on » and left to see others. So I wound up playing to the gathering and basically nobody listening. I laughed, but was a bit disapointed as I was kinda proud to show what I was capable of and moreover, I wasn’t nervous. It went well. So yeah, that’s exactly what I was telling myself this week. I play because it makes me feel good. Especially when you know a piece well and can play with ease. Thanks for the comment.
Not just piano. Pretty much everything you do in life no one really cares about except you and maybe some close friends/family
If you really want to share a performance that is genuinely received, then learn somebody's piece and play it for them. Not only will they appreciate it, they'll give you good criticism that makes you feel heard.
I too have come to grips with this. The only people I know who love to hear me play piano is my mum and I, and that's good enough for me.
Performance for others was never a goal but once people find out you play well, it happens and then you have to address your feelings related to how people may respond.  I have been playing for a living in my retirement years and I much prefer to play in a group, accompany singers, or other instruments in the church where I’m pianist, or to play for ballet classes as a dance musician.  The joy comes from the collaboration with others and making something meaningful together.
I could agree, it’s rarely the first thought that pops into my head but having lived in a house where someone played and now I don’t, I miss it, sometimes it’s the more subtle things that we don’t know we want
As an adult picking up the piano again, I agree. Playing the piano is such a great outlet for me emotionally, in a way it's as if that's when I'm most authentic ... I sometimes would feel misunderstood by my loved ones who don't understand it or think classical music is booring. That's why my relationship with my teacher is so nice though... They really see me and understand. It's very vulnerable in a way and quite special.
After brain surgery and 5 years of seizures, I lost interest in any special interest I had before that. The desire just vanished, and I had a lot.

 I started playing for two reasons. 
1. Because I needed something to help my brain recover from massive memory loss. I never imagined how much it would help. 
2. Because I desperately needed something I too love again. Piano was a shot in the dark but I immediately fell in love and have played every day since. It has only been since March but I can barely walk away.

So that leaves me with one more reason why piano was meant for me and only me. I am absolutely TERRIFIED of playing in front of other people!!
This is doubly true for those of us at the low end of the skill and talent range. It's okay to realize (in my case in my 70's) that you enjoy plinking around at the piano even if there's no hope of ever pleasing an audience. I bought a digital piano and headphones. I cringe at my own undisciplined tendencies, but who cares? I think it's good for me to play, and my husband may not realize that he benefits from my improved mood, but at least I can play on impulse  without disrupting his TV watching.
I once played Piano in public playing impressive Chopin and no reactions. Nothing. didn’t care because I was playing for myself. 

I then improvised a simple chord and melody for 1 minute and someone gave me a tip saying he was so moved. Thought that was interesting.
It is true, but for some of us who are experienced in working with others as accompanist or solo, we do miss the interaction of playing with others and, or the atmosphere. I have not performed publicly for many years now. It's true I play for myself, but I miss the interaction. Not the accolade, never made much playing, but being around other musicians, getting on stage. The exception, rush, rehearsals. It's all part of not just being a pianist, but a musician. We talk a different  language.
I wish I could play as well for others as I can for myself.  I usually play for other when I want them to leave and it works like a charm everytime
I adopt this view too for control of my expectations.

When I play in public, I play what I know at the forefront, mistakes allowed. Even unfamiliar latest pieces I'm practicing just to get my jitters up and face the fear.

But, if I notice (and I did) some people who may appreciate something I can play, I will switch over to it. The old lady stayed on until I finished and left.

Most of the time? No other people stood and listened.

I extend your view to most other things in life. Most of the time, we are the only ones interested in our own affairs, improvements, learnings etc. Birthdays? Weddings? Baby showers? Yeah, those too.

Thank you for your post, and play on!
I’ve been perfectly happy playing for myself 95% of the time and then for friends and family on holidays haha
I totally get where you're coming from, but usually have a different experience. I often don't give very much importance to what I'm performing, because I play all day every day (and it's my 1000th time playing it, and I'm probably never going to play it better than run 896 last month when I still felt a strong connection to the piece when I was fresh out of my breakup or whatever). 

But then people will come up to me afterwards and tell me all these nice things and how what I'm doing is meaningful and all this stuff, and I just have to hold in all the honest feelings I have about it being a middling performance by my standards or whatever because there is no way to communicate that without being an asshole. The last thing I'd want to do it invalidate a meaningful experience they had.
Yep. Most people who are interested in hearing you play, only want to hear pieces they know/like, which is basically pop songs.
The exception is your mama, lol. As the mother of a piano player, nothing makes me happier than hearing my baby play music.
The only exception to this is if you are an enormously talented performer, meaning you can convey emotions with the music. Most piano players "hear" the piece well in their heads but it sounds quite monotone from outside. That's why the thing you are describing happens.

In fact, this can turn into the opposite situation. Exceptionally talented performers grow tired of their pieces, while people can't stop listening to them.
I disagree because it was the opposite experience for me.  Growing up I always thought no one cared and then someone in my family told me to stop getting in my head and play for people more because it brings joy to others.   I‘be been a full time musician for thirteen years now, so that advice worked out in my favor.  I do agree that the majority of people don’t care but there will still be some who do.  

I will agree with OPs observation that no one will have the same relationship with the music that you do, but I would not say that no one is interested.  They will glean what they want out of the performance and have their own relationship with it, which then becomes a beautiful thing on its own.

Also, drunk people love the piano.  So there’s that!
People aren't interested in instrumental music in general. They want to hear a singer, backed up with drums and guitars and things. And in terms of style, they're not interested in classical or jazz. Don't take it personally.
I forgot to mention that - the thread topic only applies to people that want to play piano for showing off or something. And not everybody is in that particular boat.

So when you write 'hard reality' - then the topic actually applies to them (or you) only.

It doesn't apply to me - as I'm not in that boat, even though I'm very good at music and very good at playing pianos. 

It probably does apply to you - otherwise you wouldn't have written that particular 'topic'.
I play the violin in trios and duos at restaurants, weddings, events and etc. Almost nobody cares. We make mistakes, play the wrong song, overplay and whatever you would consider bad. The thing is just don't stop playing and almost nobody can tell something is wrong. Fun part; we developed the habit of looking at each other and smile when we make a mistake or something is out of ordinary, EVERYONE things we do this because we have fun ourselves. The reality is, as i smile, my inner voice goes "in what layer of hell do you think this is the correct chord you door knob?". So just have fun, people can't tell the difference because they don't pay attention as much as you do, but once you look like you also have fun, they join the fun, if that makes sense.
This isn’t true. You’re just hanging around too many musicians, and not playing for enough “laymen.” Also, it depends on how you tell others that you play, or how they find out, and how you present yourself even if you’re not on a stage in an auditorium. 

It may be true that there are people that don’t wanna just hear someone play because they can, but it certainly ain’t the vast majority.
the real problem is if you aren't interested in hearing yourself play.
I think the vast majority of people don't even know how to appreciate what you play.
Totally disagree. I love playing the piano but I've often had people beg me to play, and I have to remind myself that when people listen to me they're way more excited that when I listen to myself.

And I can relate, when I hear someone who plays better than me (any instrument really) I am more excited than they seem to be.
I haven’t found this to be true.
I feel that, and vice versa haha
well the reason i want to play publicly is so that people will forget themselves for those few moments. They might get emotional or be happy about the song they hear. They are not there to appreciate my fine skills. I just want them and myself to be happy for those few moments
When I was at the hospital for taking my blood there was a public piano, and the woman playing there really made me feel something and inspired me to start playing again :)
So yeah while the vast majority won't be that interested, some will
This is so true
yess this a hundred times over! 
a hobby should be for the sake of your enjoyment although there’s nothing wrong in wanting to use it as a form of self expression. 
i have met a few friends from piano tho, there’s one at uni I always bang on and we’ve somehow created a band out of it from random friends (lol) it’s crazy
It's also true not everyone has the depth and capacity to be moved by word-less music.
Isn't this mainly because of 21st century music? 
Most people nowadays listen to mainstream pop & hip hop.. 

I doubt it was the same way 200 years ago.
Yes, this is true. But that’s because most of the time musicians don’t have anything worthy to show.

To captures someone’s attention and retain it throughout the whole ordain is a very difficult thing to do. 
But it can be done, when your playing flows as naturally and beautifully as two squirrel playing by the lake then people’s eyes will by pure natural force be drawn to see what you’re doing. You become a fountain that just flows and flows with whatever you play. 

Ever wonder how you can’t take your eyes off certain musicians once they begin their thing? 

But to get there you need lots and lots of practice, maturity and simply mastery. 

Truth be said, half good material isn’t enough to move people or capture their attention whole.
Oh, I 100% assume no one wants to hear me play.
You and maybe someone you are with. 
The song “Piano in the Dark” by Brenda Russell! It’s a soulful R&B ballad that was released in 1988 and featured the lyrics:

*And when he plays piano in the dark*

*He holds me close like a lover should*

*But when the morning light appears*

*He always disappears*

The song is about a woman who is in love with a man who is elusive and mysterious, only appearing at night to play piano in the dark and hold her close. It’s a hauntingly beautiful song that captures the complexity of love and desire.
Agree - playing piano is part of my mental health regimen. It is been for over 30 years.

Pro Tip: people will want to hear you play if you are the type of musician who finds the pocket and makes your band mates sound better. Then when you get that 5 seconds of glory you can add a lick that gives some stank face.
You need something to say first. That's way people hear The Beatles, not Jacob Collier.
See - this is where life experience counts. For you - you have your own view or perception of the world. For me - I also don't play piano to 'impress' people. I play piano for absolute love of piano and for absolute enjoyment of the sounds and music from the piano, and for learning and developing and generating music. 

  
Now - one other factor you may not have thought about is this. Even though I love piano and playing piano first and foremost -- you know -- the families that just can't wait to boast/brag about their skills. That is - the show-offs/narcissists or what name we give them. So a secondary or less important reason for practising is to show - if necessary - that they're not the only ones that are very good at music and piano.
“Play music to express, not to impress” - words of wisdom
At least the ballet dancers seem to appreciate what I’m playing even though I may be winging it.
Nobody sane wants to hear you go over the same passage 5000 times while you’re working out the performance.
I'm far too egotistical to receive this message. Plus, you have been playing in equal temperament all these years, missing the varied colours that are possible. My audiences love me, and I am famous in my own mind. I am worth every penny that I should be earning. And, I am happy being a classical snob.
[deleted]
I don't play for validation and I don't like receiving compliments. I also don't play for myself; if that was the point, I would not play. I actually dislike playing piano but it's the medium I know best.

I play to communicate to others what I could never communicate in words. most of the time it gets through when I'm performing, whether this is on the piano that I've played since a child, or a new instrument I'm learning; on the new instruments, it takes someone professional enough to hear it since I lack the technical aspects. 

That said, I'm speaking as someone who was trained to speak my own voice since I was 9 at an university and I was repeatedly asked what I wanted to communicate and to really ponder that, not just as a whole when playing piano, but also in specific pieces/passages.
Who cares. I play for myself, and I have fun. I sometimes play for others, and they seem to enjoy it. 

I think the enjoyment of the listener really depends upon the extent to which the listener enjoys the type of music the pianist is playing. I listen exclusively to jazz and classical and enjoy it very much when a pianist (or any instrument) plays those genres. I, in fact, enjoy music more when someone tries to play it live. I think this is the case for most.

Regardless, I honestly don't care if others enjoy it or not. People seem to tolerate when children smash the keys of public piano, so I doubt an earnest attempt to play something nice would bother many. 

In other words, I agree, but I don't think it's a hard reality; instead, it's just common sense. 

Is there anything that prompted you to post this, OP?
I play various kinds of music, but it was never about showing off or an audience, for me. It was purely for me. Then people want you to put on a show. I've done a few concerts when I was in a group and at a coffee house. Definitely a different take on things. I'm not generally ready to put on a show. Maybe if I was really, really good at it I'd be able to casually put on a show, but unfortunately that's not me. I don't mind singing in front of anyone, though, at the drop of a hat. Voice my first instrument. I want my instruments to feel as natural - not sure if I'll get there. Done the impossible before, though!
Q: How do you get $1,000,000.00 playing jazz piano?

A: Start with $2,000,000.00.
any pointers for a classically trained pianist looking to explore the rich realm of jazz?
One of the things I miss about being a kid is that people *do* actually want to hear you play piano when you’re visibly 14, you don’t even have to be that good. I was a C-tier piano kid—raised on classical piano from the time I could talk, usually the best pianist in school, but also usually the worst pianist at the recital. I loved performing, but I didn’t really care enough to put in more than my parent-mandated daily hour.

But any time I’d come across a piano in public, I’d sit down and play some technically impressive piece moderately well and people would just go nuts for it. Recording me and everything.
I am 24, finished my piano Masters and study organ on the side, also serve as a church organist. Is this a messege from my future self?
Great framework for thinking about this. In addition, I think even for the 1% audience who care, unless they are professional musicians, I don’t think most people can tell the difference between playing Chopin at freshman level at the conservatory or at the bachelor of music graduate level. If the goal were to impress audience, it matters much more to play their favourite songs than the level of playing.
I love this. Notice how in my OP I said 99.99% of the time. You articulated what happens to the .01% beautifully.
I play piano poorly, but love it when others play. Those people who play piano or guitar whenever they encounter one? I love them. I will sit and listen to someone play for as long as they're willing to! 

I genuinely think that enjoyment was the default reaction. Even if I'm not tuned in, a little background noise is nice. Please keep playing, party piano people!
As for musicians ... I'm in the category that I play the piano first and foremost for love of piano and music, and self development and expressing myself with music to myself.


But there is a non-important secondary reason for practising and developing in this particular 'area'. And that is because it really is true that there are a lot of showoffs etc.   


So I just keep practising and developing to show (if I need to) that they're not the only ones that are 'good' at playing the piano and music. The showoffs that is.


And practising also involves composition and translation of what is in the mind to the keys immediately, or very quickly ... becoming more and more one with music and piano, where the music instrument and music generator is the combination of ourself and the piano. So not just always focusing on playing scripts.


I just play piano for love of music and piano. It's first and foremost. Others can do what they want to do obviously. The world has all sorts, and accommodates all sorts ... which provides the variety as usual.
Now I’m heading to YouTube to listen to old Soviet cartoon music. Thanks for the tip!
There’s always the exception to the rule but I think you can almost tell when people are trying to impress other people or trying to impress yourself.
When you say “no one was listening” do you mean that you weren’t the center of attention or they all literally left the room because you weren’t good? If the former, they might have been listening and enjoying. Think of a wedding cocktail hour where a solid professional piano or guitar player is playing. No one is watching, but they are enjoying.
For me, my biggest support was my Grandma. I could have played one note on repeat for an hour and she would have still listened to me. Now it is just me, but I play with her in my mind and every 'impressive' song I learn, I do it for the both of us 😊
100% agree. Collaborating with others musically is the ultimate experience. You can both feel the music.

I used to play the piano and organ in church and received a lot of acclaim for it. Then I left my religion and there’s a large void there that I will always miss.
Lmao, you're literally playing them out like an Oscars speech gone too long. That's a great idea actually
Also, my mom recently passed away from dementia, and my son would play piano for her. Sometimes it was the only thing that helped settle her.
I don't think this is really an exception. If blind testing AND if the piece were unfamiliar, I think the majority of people can't discern the difference between world famous pianists and conservatory students. Even if a difference could be detected by full attention (which most people lack these days), that difference is relatively small compared to repertoire selection. In other words, most people prefer hearing their favourite songs played by a bachelor of music graduate to hearing a Scriabin sonata by a famous pianist.
Or maybe you’re just suffering for delusions of grandeur and think that people are actually enjoying what you’re playing. There’s an element of narcissism that I’m hearing here.
That’s sad
Sorry but you sound like a narcissist.
Not trying to gate keep. Just trying to keep our expectations low so that when they are exceeded, it is memorable.
I’m not sure I follow you but thanks for the response anyway
There’s a lot of new pianists here and I’m not here to preach to them but perhaps to my former self. I have so much I want to express through music. It’s my favorite language and I want people to feel the highs and lows that I’m trying to communicate.

But even as an advanced pianist and organist (I use these terms relative to the population and not to the piano world), I’ve come to realize that the vast majority of people appreciate what I do and might leave a compliment but aren’t going going to sit there and beg me to continue playing because they’re moved to tears. No, it’s a pleasant experience for them then they walk away then think about their day.

I see some viral videos of someone sitting down at a piano in a busy Costco and planking away thinking that a thousand people are going to gather round because they can play a Chopin waltz.

No, play that waltz at home for your own enjoyment for the same reason that we run marathons, climb peaks, lift weights, or plant flowers. It’s because it’s deeply fulfilling to marvel at what we can do and accomplish. That is a reward in its own. Compliments along the way are only the cherry on top.
Check out everything related to Barry Harris you can find on YouTube.
Same experience, but in college
Awesome, congratulations!  Music has always been a side passion for me.  I make my money doing something else. It sounds like you have the skills to land a nice full-time organist/music director gig at a larger church, if that's what you want.
Do you really think most musicians fall into category 3? I listen to music to feel it’s message or intention, whatever it may be. 

I find it hard to believe that that’s so rare amongst other people who are passionate about music.
Yeah that makes sense. Rereading what I wrote about the musician category, I didn't mean to make it sound like a negative aspect as to why musicians like to hear each other play. Rather, it's kind of like a sport, the community likes to listen to each other, support each other, compare notes, talk shop, and so on. Even if you're not necessarily "deeply moved" all the time, as a musician, that's totally fine and it doesn't mean we're doing anything wrong.
When people are trying to impress themselves or others, sort of showing off, it is often because   parents and teachers have groomed them for the stage. One of the examples that comes to mind is beauty pageants in which mothers praise children for performing. Instead of building confidence mothers often create narcissistic children who feel entitled. Having confidence is something piano teachers try to foster in recitals and that’s a good thing as it carries over into all aspects of education, like preparing students to give presentations in school or perform well in sports programs. In all things, advancement should only come from achievement. Participation trophies run contrary to this concept. I have always had blind auditions as no amount of showing off can change the performance.
I call it wallpaper music
They were just chating around me. They were not being rude. They even said they liked it, but it’s my family, so 🙃. But yeah, like the other gentlemen is saying, it was paperwall music. Or « musique d’ameublement » as Satie would’ve put it.
I wish, lol it’s like OP said no one wants to hear you play the piano
Oh totally. Beethoven was a narcissistic hooligan. I follow the example of the greats.
thanks!
Yeah it's a combination of both, you're right. I guess one problem is sort of the flip side of Negative-Gazelle's point - that is, as musicians become more advanced with more discerning ears, they become less likely to be truly moved by hearing someone at their level, they become more accustomed to hearing music at the level of the true greats.
I wouldn’t say that “most” musicians are in categories 3. However if we look at view count on YouTube, tutorial videos generally do very well. Also, thinking about my listening pattern now, I listen to various recordings of the pieces I’m learning much more than the pieces I don’t plan to learn. For the pieces I’ve invested a year in learning, I can hear nuances and have strong preferences (eg dislike some versions even though the recording by famous pianists). For the pieces I don’t know well, I can’t easily judge if one version better than another.
I agree with your original post - as in the audience post actually. Your original post is a good one. My comment was about the title of the thread - with the 'hard reality' thing. It's as if somebody is wanting send some sort of 'message'. But that's ok. It does open a topic of discussion. Best regards.
Sorry but you are no Beethoven
Don't be sorry. Ludovico Einaudi is no Beethoven, but he is Einaudi. All of us have our relative gifts.
Does you pet like to hang around you when you play piano?
My cat finally let me play in peace once I learned about the hoodie hack and let her chill in it like a hammock. Not when I play Bach tho she is not a fan, but I noticed she always wants to be around when I play Chopin or Tchaikovsky. lol

Does you pet like to hang around you when you play the piano ? 
My cat has to meow/sing-a-long anytime I practice trumpet, or my melodica. 

I used to think he hated my trumpet playing and that's why he meows constantly while I'm practicing. But when I put the horn near hin he rubs his head against it, which tells me he approves of it. I just wish he could meow in key a little better
My cat loves to sleep under the piano when I'm playing. Only slow, relaxed music though, anything fast/dramatic and she just leaves.
My dog does, though sometimes he gets too bored and demands pets mid practice session lol
Blep
My cat likes Schumann, will tolerate some Chopin or Mozart but will go out to the garden when I play scales lol
I need to pull up a chair and put my cat on it.  Else, he keeps pawing my leg
Nope, as soon as I start playing she leaves. Not sure what this says about my playing tho 🥲
My recently deceased older lady (Snickers) used to always been intentionally under my feet as I played.  She'd sometimes let her tail flick under the pedal and get pinched, but learned.  She had a habit of flopping on my feet while I was trying to operate things down there which was especially problematic when I was doing lots of practice with expression pedal and using a switcher for program advancement as my feet would jump around more.

I miss her.

My chonky boy (Bork) just likes to be nearby.  He would love to sit in my lap, so intentionally got him a little ottoman where he can sit right next to me an get occasional pets so he's not in my way while practicing, [but we can still enjoy each others' company.](https://i.imgur.com/GQe5Xy2.jpg)

Both cats seem(ed) be indifferent to most other instruments, though Snickers used to start yowling specifically when me and my wife would sing or if we would play things with certain harmonies.  I think she was worried about us when we would sing, like she thought we were calling out in distress, but the harmony thing seemed to bother her in some other way.  She could mostly handle high stuff (my wife in flute or picc), but play mid-register harmony and it was a different story.

Bork mostly seems completely indifferent.  I could practice trumpet and he still just looks at me lazily as if nothing is happening.  Though my wife was practicing some altissimo sax stuff earlier today and he certainly seemed concerned.  Mostly the reaction he would make if he thought he heard a car.  The sharp, jarring sounds that he doesn't hear often seemed to make him think something else was up.
It's moments like these that make me want a cat just so I can serenade it.
I wish. My pets will only lay nearby.
One of my cats likes to meow when I played, and it seems he understands music
My cat used to sit beside me on the bench all the time when I was a kid. I loved it. I miss those days
Our dog used to know the sound of my laptop shutting meant I was getting up and walking away, so he would get out from under my desk. Now I wonder if anyone has taught their dog a melody or chord to represent something, like treat or going outside.
Mine likes to climb on the piano but only for Chopin.
My cats, and one of them in particular, like to sit on the piano whilst I'm playing. I've often wondered what it is that attracts them: the music, just noise, or physical vibrations of the piano structure. Or maybe all of these things.
Piece is The Seasons, op. 37a: VI. June "Barcarolle" if anyone is wondering. Think it’s also a grade 8 abrsm piece
My aunt's dog loves dropping a ball on my pedal foot while I'm playing
one of my cats like to sit on my lap while I play. it's very cute but she's also very in the way
If I’m sitting down *anywhere* my dog demands to be on my lap, that includes the piano.
Sadly i don't have a pet:< btw your cat and your playing are beautiful!!!
My cat likes to jump up, stand on the keys, knock my music stand over and meow when I'm recording. Love that little gremlin
I love this! I have no pets but now I dream of having a parrot sitting on my shoulder while practicing. Yarrr!
Yeah my parrot loves to sit on my shoulder and sing along whenever I play my piano. He's so cute!
r/blep would love this video
Cats are very sensitive to sound and seem to like music catered to specifically cats. There also seems to be a difference between different breeds. Human music is/would be very much different to cat music, since music is always catered to how we communicate. Vocal ranges are different for example, but also rhythm of the most liked music often also caters towards our heart beats (or 2x the beat f.e.) research showed. The same applies to cats. Some research however didn’t show any form of cats liking music. Some research showed cats petting/rubbing the speakers with their heads after presenting them with cat specific music. Cat-specific music is music specifically made to mimic purring, suckling, and other sounds in the feline vocal range. 

The hard thing about this is that if it’s about liking music or not, preferences will vary widely between cats just like they do with humans.

Cats whiskers are super sensitive to small vibrations in the air and their hearing is also more sensitive than ours. Cats ear shape amplifies sounds between 2.000 and 6.000Hz and they can hear up to 64.000Hz. So they also perceive sound different than we do. 

Research seems to suggest a lot of cats don’t like hard and loud low tones (just have someone tap your eyelashes a few times a second). And music catered to humans often does use a nice amount of bass. On the piano I can imagine this is a bit different, since you play a lot of middle/higher register stuff with the right hand. I can imagine the cat not liking when you constantly hammer the lower registers of the piano. Also cats purring sits somewhere between 25 and 150Hz (but isn’t particularly loud for the same reason). You might just hit that perfectly with your left hand sometimes for your cat to enjoy it. 

Last thing, then I’m out: your cat might also think the piano is too loud and try to find solace in your arms. Just saying not everyone has to be what it seems ;)
Is it just me or is this barcarolle performance very fast
Yeah
My cat is a music critic. He bites my elbow to get me to stop playing when I’m at the piano. And when I use the keyboard he hates the high notes and claws at my knee!
My husky, *surprisingly*, doesn't howl or anything when I play, but he does sit passive-aggressively by the piano side-eyeing me to make sure I know that I'm annoying him.
Yeah he loves to sit on the keys themselves in an attempt to stop me from playing like sh*
Adorable. My Jack Russell Terrier wants to play with a ball on the top of my foot which is on the pedal, pushing & poking at a ball under the pedals or content herself with sleeping on a blanket under the piano. My previous JRT also slept with her body touching the piano.
My dogs are critics,  whenever i play the wrong note/chords rhey start barking like crazy LOL.
My cat sits on the piano next to me and just stays with her eyes closed there while I play. It's adorable.
I have an ottoman next to me, and fluffy blanket for one of my cats to keep me company. My other cat jumps on piano and curls up on keys while I play.
There's no way that cat's name isn't something like Sir Alfred Benedict II. He's real cute though, what is his name?
It puts my dog to sleep every time. I have a fuzzy bed next to it for this reason so he stopped sleeping by my pedals lol. Though sometimes he will still try to get attention by bringing a toy and booping my backend with it to interrupt my playing lol.
Yes! My cat is really supportive in my playing. Even if I’m just practicing scales she listens and falls asleep 🥺
Our old cat didn't care about piano when humans played, but she'd get up and walk on the keys in the middle of the night. Spooky!

Opie the Corgi, however, gets upset if he can't hang out with me in the music studio. He has no preference for any particular repertoire. 😁
hims got his tongue out
My corgi likes to lie on my damper pedal- he jumps when I push him out of the way and then lays on my foot.
I have a high soprano, and when I learn to sing high notes, my cat comes to me and sniffs my face. She thinks I am getting crazy
Mine yells at me to stop
Socute
My dog will sleep in her bed right next to my bench for as long as I practice. Honestly it's one of my top favorite things in life. It's slightly less comforting when her 65lb ass runs under my legs, steps on the pedals, or she puts her paws on the bench and nudges my elbow with her head but you take the bad with the good I guess.
I sang opera, my sister played flute. My dog, a Spitz, would sit in hallway between our rooms,  wait for a pause, and howl, trying to match our pitch. I thought it was causing him pain,  so I put him out. Then he'd holler like he was hurt. A vet living in the neighborhood told me he was trying to fit in.
My Kitty steps on some keys while I play and he ends up scaring himself off the keyboard every time
So wholesome 😻
I wish my cat is  gone by the first 🎵
Not only does he want pets while I play, he jumps on the keyboard. x_x
My Bichon pup howls too when I play him the minute waltz!
Whenever I sing my cat goes into trance mode and makes biscuits like crazy. I take that as a compliment lol
No way my cat would tolerate me moving that much. He would jump off. But he does weave around my feet when he wants something (usually food)
My dog used to try nudge my hands off the piano when he wanted attention.
Please slow down and play in one Tempo not in 10 different ones. It’s called a „barcarole“ for a reason
Maybe match his pitch instead of expecting the world 🙄
Give him a mic and some autotune lol
When you fail your duty as a white noise machine.
Nah bro some cats just prefer metal rather than classical music.
Right? This is so adorable.
I never thought of that now I wonder the same thing!
Hmm this makes me tempted to come up with a quick "I'll stop playing" jingle and see if my dog picks up on it..
My cat freaking love Chopin. Or majority of the romantic composers really. She would not leave me alone whenever I’m playing music from the era.
My cat does the same thing. But I don’t mind so I usually start playing songs that don’t require the pedals so she will stay on my lap lol.
Thank you: ) She is a funny looking cat xp
Its like men, the world is already hyper critical of piano players and now you too?! lol
This is her ladyship Athena Stirling. 
xp
Second that! Please share it here when you do.
My dachshund will get up from his napping, which generally never does and come sit in my lap when I play. Then sit in my chair for a time after I get up finished.
My dachshund will get up from his napping, which generally never does and come sit in my lap when I play. Then sit in my chair for a time after I get up finished.
Check out the band Rodent Destroyer.
Try it and let us know if it works. I bet it could easily over time if you pick something you don't play often. Dogs can hear twice the frequency range we can too, so the overtones on the highest key can be heard too
Yea that's also a very fitting name. What a fine lady
Sidenote: you also play very well
We'll see, I doubt I'll remember to do it consistently enough for the doggo to pick up on it, but I'll try!
That’s very kind of you. This is one of my favourite piece but I wouldn’t say I’m great at it so thank you!
Well it's just very fluent and un-stuttery
Depressed: The world of classical music/piano I was raised in seems to have disappeared now that I’m an adult.
I hope this doesn’t sound stupid, but hear me out.

I’m in my late 30’s. Was raised in a very classical music family in a major US city. All my siblings and I played musical instruments. We all took lessons from 6 to 18 years old. Played in orchestras. Sang in choir. My parents took us to classical concerts.

Then adulthood hit. All of my family moved to a tiny town in a western state in bumf*ck nowhere. All my classical music friends from adolescence and college grew up, got jobs, and left the state. Music to them is just something they left behind.

None of my childhood friends plays or sings anymore. My siblings haven’t touched their instruments in a decade.

I still play the piano. Every day. It’s still my passion.

Whenever I mention it as one of my interests (I certainly do not mention it unless it seems remotely appropriate, which is exceedingly rare), most people around just find it weird or think I’m pretentious. Most people would rather talk about Drake’s feud with Kendrick Lamar than listen to Stravinsky or watch a piano concert. And I know even saying that sounds pretentious but it’s not. Kendrick Lamar is really good. I’m not pretentious, I just have interests that seem to isolate me. I’ve learned to keep that entire part of my life hidden from the world.

I often feel like it doesn’t matter anymore, that I too should just grow up and do adult things like my coworkers and other dudes around me: get excited about country music, drive a big truck, drink whiskey and listen to Garth Brooks. I’ve learned to keep it quite off the radar that I my main pastime outside of work is playing the piano/composing (the fact it’s so hard to make it in the music world is for another time).

Sometimes I’ll go solo or take my partner to a concert, but she’s not half as engaged as I am.

The circle has grown so small. It’s like that whole part of my life just went POOF, and with a snap of the fingers, disappeared.

Just want to know if anyone can relate.
One tip that immediately came to mind: Volunteer to work at a classical music festival. You are guaranteed to find (like-minded) friends among the other volunteers. 

I worked as assistant to the (regional manager) festival director at one of Europe's biggest chamber music festivals with over 100 concerts over a span of two weeks in Kuhmo, Finland. 

It was by far the most inspirational and eye-opening experience of my musical career. I got a ton of friends, I had free tickets to all concerts, I got to meet, sit by the fire with some of my biggest idols, I got to hear some of the best classical performances of my life. Like Smetana's Piano Trio in G-minor op 15. Listen to the finale and you can imagine the intensity in a live situation. 

The festival spirit is often unparallelled, no matter what the festival is about.  I hope you find a crowd to hang out with.
Hey, you’ve got us.

But can relate. You need to find a small circle where people are still engaged, but it’s hard to find among younger people.  People get so much quick satisfaction from social media, musical instruments require too much focus and dedication. 

I think that as a piano player you still have the advantage that you can accompany singers or instrumentalists.
[deleted]
Not many people keep pursuing a musical instrument in adulthood, unless they do it for a living or play in a band or some such. Life gets in the way, it's not a priority and people just drop it and never pick it up again. And unlike other hobbies, musical instruments have way less influx of new players later in life because people are convinced that you can't learn an instrument as an adult, or that it's pointless because you'll never get good. That's why I think this kind of story is very common, just think of all the people who mention that they used to play an instrument as a kid. They are on the other side of this story.
You’re at an age where most people have a ton of stuff going on with major financial obligations, young children, and stepping into senior roles in their career. People lose time for their hobbies. Some come back to it as they age, kids leave the house—or at minimum require less supervision—people retire, etc. Some come back. Some don’t.
I think people join amateur orchestras for that reason.  If you're in a niche of a niche you have to find the people.
>In the winter of 1705, aged 20, Bach set out to travel over 250 miles on foot from Arnstadt, in Thuringia, the heart of Germany, to Lübeck, near the Baltic coast, in order to study the art and craft of Lübeck’s famous organist, Dietrich Buxtehude.

Have to rewrite this comment so I’ll keep it short. I’ve had this problem and I’m sure many people can relate, even Bach had to travel far to find musicians good enough to study. You have to go where the music is. Now that I’m in community college I know so many musicians and pianists that are better than me. 

Find wherever your local music scene is. Concerts are great places to meet musicians ;)
I am always super impressed when I meet good musicans,  esp piano, so pat yourself on the back to have such a  passion and skill that few have or can attain.  .  Are you not living in that big city anymore?  It could be that the people you know right now are not interested in classical music but you might be able to join up with others who are and make new contacts and friends.  I know you know all this but just saying this as  a push to feel proud of yourself and give you a tiny push to keep on your music path.  Even if your family and wife are not that interested in music, you can still have your own passions.  Good luck and hope you find your "tribe."
From my experience, things ebb and flow in life. It sounds like perhaps there is an opportunity for you to meet new friends who have more in common with you. From your description of what others at work do, I’m thinking there aren’t many there that sit on the board of any local arts organizations. 

Are there local arts orgs that you can get involved with? Community symphonies or orchestras? Can you volunteer your piano talents or take a part time job at a local church that needs a pianist? I know organ isn’t the same, but some places need organists too, and there are even fewer organists available than pianists. Often in these religious settings, you play SATB hymns, but have the opportunity for beautiful prelude, postlude, and solo pieces. Sometimes, you can even come in as a guest performer. Choir groups need pianists, ballet companies need pianists, and any time there’s a collaborative concert with performers from multiple organizations, there could be a performance opportunity for you. If there are any performance or music organizations with a board around you, you can likely become involved with those too. Just reach out and ask if they have any opportunities for someone who is classically trained in piano, and you might be surprised!
Part of this is just ... America, Fuck Yeah.

But another part is more general and I think even goes beyond music.  When you're young there are a whole lot of interesting areas, music, literature, art, that are presented to you and all your siblings/friends as important, and not only in a vocational sense.  They are presented as "higher things". However, once you're out of school, everybody's nose is to the grindstone (particularly if they have families to support) so there's little time for these things as avocations.  On the other hand, for people who pursue them as a vocation (professional musicians, academics, etc.) they become to an extent just another job and lose their magic that way.  

Paradoxically, one way people re-experience this magic is to have kids themselves (despite the "grindstone" effect).  Strange to say, but often adults connect with one another through their kids' friend groups.  So one hypothesis is that if you had kids, this otherwise hidden world of classical music would suddenly reappear as if by magic. :)
You should seek out new relationships with people who share your passion. You've got something with which to connect with others.
I had that when I was an adolescent. I was the only one who listened to classical and practiced piano, it was lonely too. Now I work at a concerthall with a possibility to attend concerts live and started piano again. I could even play for colleagues.
Nothing I can say except you're not alone haha
Hey there,

I just wanted to say that your passion for music is something truly special. Music isn't just a pastime or a childhood phase—it's a fundamental part of life that resonates with our deepest emotions and experiences. It's wonderful that you continue to play the piano every day; that's a commitment to something meaningful that not everyone understands.

It's tough when those around us don't share or appreciate what we love, but that doesn't make your passion any less valuable. Don't feel pressured to hide this important part of yourself or conform to what others consider "grown-up" or "manly." Authenticity is about embracing who you are and what brings you joy.

Perhaps there are local music groups, online communities, or even just attending more concerts where you might meet like-minded people who share your appreciation for classical music. Connecting with others who understand can make a big difference.

Remember, following your passion isn't something you need to outgrow—it's something that enriches your life and the lives of those who get to experience it with you. Keep playing, keep loving music, and know that it absolutely matters.

Stay true to yourself!
I hear you on this one.


Something I keep in mind is that musical tastes of the masses change with the times. The current era us ruled by music that fits the short attention spans and dopamine pathways that social media has cultivated.


I could see a reactive cultural shift away from that at some point in the future and potentially longer format music like classical music and art music could become more widely popular. 


Just speculating.
Might be a regional thing. I live in MN. I havent heard anyone mock someone for their hobbies since i was in middle school.
I understand completely! If football is your passion, you and your friends bond over it, talk about it endlessly, and have great times going to games or watching on big screen tv’s—complete with beer, hotdogs and adrenaline!

In contrast, piano can be rather isolating—it’s usually piano and me, alone in a room. When I mention that piano is my number one joy, friends say, “Oh, how nice (yawn).” So the subject changes because I don’t want to bore them to death. We talk about what they love instead!

I’m just a hobbyist, but I advertised on a local online chatboard searching for like-minded piano enthusiasts. I got five responses. For several years we gathered in each other’s homes to talk music and play for each other. We really enjoyed sharing our love for piano.
I loved the idea about volunteering. Also... Find a teacher and plug into their network. There's always someone better than you and you'll find that there's a lot of musicians out in the sticks.

Try to start something. You'd be surprised how many people are actually interested in classical music but don't have an outlet for it.

Start teaching. You'll meet parents, kids, and teens who share your values and can help spread the joy of music. You're a pianist and can accompany others as well. 

I'll be honest, I just kind of ignore the noise from other folks. I'm happy enough in life not knowing anything about pop culture. I do drive a truck though so classical piano and trucks aren't mutually exclusive! I live in the sticks too, and have found through teaching that a lot of this people not caring about more intellectual music is just not having a basis to understand it from. Like you said, Kendrick Lamar is great, but you love classical. That's the right attitude. Keep it up!
Sounds like you need to find or cultivate a social circle based around this interest.

If you’re in a small town this might involve heading to the nearest hub.

It may also mean accepting that you’re a big fish in a small pond and doing “smaller” things just to get that space for expression and connection - like accompany the local am drams, for example. It’s not glamorous but you’re taking what’s inside of you and putting it out into the world.

Don’t snuff out your interests to fit in - nothing good can come of that.
One of your problems may be due to the limited number of people in your current area who have an active interest in classical piano music. So, while searching the woodwork for other aficionados may be one possible solution, it may not be easily achieved.

An alternate solution is to consider branching out yourself by learning new genres of music that are popular around where you live, including perhaps jazz and/or rock or others, and then using your skills, both old and new, to jam with friends. This is exactly what I did. I have many friends who play guitar and sing, and most music jams that they have had consisted of 5 to 10 people all playing rhythm guitar. So I bought a relatively inexpensive digital piano (a Casio Privia) with weighted keys and a small QSC PA speaker, have started learning how to play by ear and have been accompany them. Because so few play piano, my contributions are most welcome by others, and I am able to get my own musical enjoyment out of it. Your mileage may vary, but it's worth considering.
MY BROTHER.  Ha ha - man I could have written a lot of this .  I grew up playing in hard rock bands , playing 3 chord songs in bars- and all of that was “awesome”  , according to co workers and my friends-  but then when I really became fascinated with music theory and started writing music on the piano it was like I drove my cool car off a CLIFF!  Ha ha!  I guess electric guitar is sexy.  And piano is clearly not.  I want to perform -  I could throw a rock and hit a guy strumming a guitar and singing, just about wherever I go to eat or have a drink-  but I never get a call back about playing the piano/ singing anywhere.  It sounds so much better- it just does .  I bought a Nord grand and 6 high quality speakers, digital mixer, etc -  I can make it sound SO MUCH NICER than 99% of anything I ever hear- which is usually a rounded out, overcompressed “blang” sound with too much delay and reverb .  But since that’s “cooler” than piano, then I guess that’s that.  
So I have the FOMO -  I feel like the above 👆🏻 is the “standard” - and people just aren’t as into music as I am.  That “not very good sounding 3 chord guitar songs > anything on piano because‘that’s not as cool’”.  That people have different expectations.  
Also similar-  I work with a bunch of gruff , manly dirtball  men.  I feel like I’m just as big of a dirtbag as these guys , but the fact that I play the piano , there is a like an unspoken thing - like “oh Mr. HIGH SOCIETY over here”….   
So I think that you are correct.  I think that we are currently going through a different era.  If you are in the States , as I am, there seems to be a kind of a “celebration of low life” or of “low expectations” or something.  That things regarded as “middle of the road” 50 years ago may now seem “uppity”. 
It’s weird to me, because I like music.  I think about it all the time.  The grandest thing that I ever write will probably never compete with Mumble Rap.  So it’s lonely out here .  I thought about changing my name to THE NAKED PIANO MAN, just to see if I could get a call back. Ha ha.  I’m in pretty good shape, so idk.  Like Jenny playing the guitar in Forrest Gump.  Ya gotta do what ya gotta do.
My brain can’t ever truly fully comprehend those that don’t love to play some sort of musical instrument in adulthood since to me it’s easily my favorite way to sort of detox/meditate after a stressful day at work. I think most adults don’t realize it’s almost therapeutic benefits that it can have? Or they get it elsewhere from any number of other hobbies or worse/more sadly, do want to but can’t find time for it in their busy lives.
> get excited about country music, drive a big truck, 

please don't do that
Stravinsky was definitely the Kendrick v. Drake of his time so not sure what your point is there
This is just part of growing up I fear. I have a very different but similar reality. Through my teenage years I played in heavy metal bands and went to music festivals and the like and now all my friends have cut their hair and their guitars are gathering dust. I can't really talk about how much I love the band Carcass in most situations so I just go to heavy metal shows by myself.

I recently started playing in a band again though and I've met a lot of similarly situated people and I feel like I'm starting to get that part of myself back.
Yes, I can relate. With young people especially it’s hard to find peers who like classical music because it’s not mainstream and popular in much of western society, and many of them have only been exposed to it occasionally at a very surface level eg. through films/tv.

It’s sad because in certain parts of the world (where arts and culture are more mainstream in society) classical music and world class soloists are much more respected and revered, and in some cases have a sort of celebrity pop status eg. South Korea, other parts of Asia as well as in many European countries.

My parents took a trip to Croatia recently and they went to a few classical music concerts there, what they instantly noticed was that there were tons of young adults and a fair number of teenagers present. In the U.K where I live, the audience at most classical music concerts is mostly elderly people with not a teenager in sight, I suspect this is the same in the US too.

In parts of Asia, meanwhile, teenage girls are discussing their favourite Rachmaninoff interpretations and soloists.
My UK childhood was similar to yours, and my kids have also learnt instruments and played in orchestras.

The orchestras where I grew up folded due to a lack of political will to support them. Where I live now, the support is strong. Through seeing them grow up, I can see that today’s kids are as enthused by classical music as was the case in my day. It’s a relatively small group, but the passion is there. London is close enough that it is feasible to spend an evening there, and there are local amateur orchestras, and the local cathedral hosts recitals. I think that orchestras need a certain population density to sustain them.

I quite like some country music too, so it’s not mutually exclusive with classical.
I’m a piano teacher, so naturally I get to mix and mingle with the crowd that enjoys lots of genres of music (including classical). You can find your local musicians’ groups and attend events. We have festivals and many student recitals in my area with two colleges and their respective music departments.
I'm sorry to hear you're going through this but at the same time glad to hear I'm not the only one who feels exactly like this. I miss going to band practice and being with all my friends and us sharing our love for music. I also miss being on the baseball team and playing ball with everyone. Whenever I bring up I played baseball the reaction I get is always an interested one, but when I bring up I play the piano, particularly classical piano, its 9/10 looked down upon. When did playing an instrument become lame? Most of my family sees it as me "fooling around". Hearts out to you OP and take that emotion and pour it into your piano. That's what I've been doing.
**FIND OTHER PEOPLE AND PLAY**

Music is a communal thing; it always has been, even as an audience in a concert hall. Get together with people who play, at whatever level they’re at, and just play. You don’t need to form an ensemble or a band or have a permanent setup. Just meet with other musicians and play, jam, do some covers, whatever. Part of it is stepping out of your comfort zone. After that classical piece you love, maybe the bass player wants to play some James Brown funk—why not? Maybe an old jazz standard, maybe something from the Stones?

This isn’t meant to replace what you already do and love. In your own time, keep growing and learning pieces that move you and are important to you. But the other side of the coin is that when you play with others, try to let loose. You don’t need to be perfect or nail it every time—just have fun.

**PLAY WITH OTHERS**
I absolutely feel that! 

Similar to you, I grew up in a family that valued music. My mom had her degree in music education & my dad had discipline & follow through, and that was a good combination. 

  
Neither of my siblings plays anymore. I have noticed that a lot of my hyper-musical friends are still involved in music, in a different way. For example, one buddy played the hell out of the tenor sax in jazz ensembles, joined the marine band, and now he does audio engineering for the marines. 

  
What I wouldn't give for a carefree week of HS u/eissirk's schedule. But nowadays we have bills to pay and places to be. 

  
Where do you live, BTW?
I can relate so much. Made a post a while ago in a different subreddit saying that content creators (be it YouTube, TV, Hollywood, whatever) should be forced to cite/credit public domain music. There were a few points I had about why I think that way, but one I wanted to shout out into the world but didn't really mention because I knew people would accuse me of being pretentious was: it's fucking sad that most people think Hungarian Rhapsody No 2 is a Looney Tunes song. It kills me. It's not pretentious to think people should know where all these amazing compositions that they hear in commercials, Minecraft videos, TikToks, etc come from. I was downvoted to hell for the mere idea that it would be a decent thing to take 2 seconds to copy and paste the source info in your information box on YouTube if you use classical music, so people can learn about it if they're interested. Pretty disappointing.
Classical music is my go-to
therapy for anxiety and depression, especially classical piano. I lost the ability to read music after many TBIs associated with a brain tumor destroying my hearing and left balance nerve. Although I can no longer play my baby grand, listening to Chopin is especially therapeutic. 
After 2 brain surgeries it’s my main respite from this cacophonous world. 
Its importance in my life cannot be overstated.
I too shut down my love of classical and piano for a while- it’s hard when other people don’t know or “get” it. However I reluctantly started teaching piano to a friends kid and it reignited my love for classical music. Teaching piano is now my job and has helped me connect with other people who love   Classical as much as I do. I would suggest looking up music teachers where you live and see if you can find a community there. I live close to a college and I try to attend students performances as often as I can. I’m about an hour away from our symphony and tickets aren’t cheap, but I make it a priority to see a few concerts a year. Live music is good for the soul!
Move to Europe lmao. No but all jokes aside, you actively have to search for it and seek out likeminded people I think. In my perception, this only partially has something to do with growing up. I've been playing the piano for almost 10 years now and wasn't born into a family that's musically gifted and they didn't particularly support my interest in classical music. Thus, I also didn't have friends who played instruments at all, though I dare to say that listening/playing classical music is still a lot more common here in Europe since it was basically born here. I can only imagine how much it must suck to grow up in a very musical environment only to see it slowly fading, since music is something highly therapeutic and very enjoyable. But having a niche interest and not having other people around you that have the same interest is usually the starting point for a lot of people. So the only advice that comes to mind is what the others have told you already. Go and search for your people. We are out there. On the other hand, if you cannot find anyone at all, try interesting other people for your passion. Offer piano lessons, Volunteer at musical festivals, churches if that's an option for you, retirement homes, just everywhere you can. I am sure you'll find your people and I am wishing you all the best on your journey.
Check out Alice Sara Ott. Makes me feel proud to be a millenial pianist.
You're just living in the wrong place. Move to London. You'll miss your family, but you'll find your people.
The majority of kids playing music are doing so because their parents encourage (or even require) it. So it stands to reason that a certain number, the ones who weren't all that keen to begin with, will drop out as soon as they're old enough to confidently make the choice (somewhere between 12 and 18). And then a fair few more will drop out as they start focusing on college, career, and/or kids. By age 40, the only people still playing regularly will be working musicians, and amateurs who love music enough to actively make it a priority. 


That doesn't mean you're always going to be isolated from the music you enjoy. But it does mean you'll probably have to make an effort if you want to spend time with like-minded people. 
You need a change of attitude. My childhood best friend talked about his problems in almost the same way

First off, appreciate yourself and be proud of having your own distinct hobbies - this is, if anything, what will end up attracting more like-minded people to you. I'm not telling you to show off, but it would be a decent place to start. 

Second, you talk about playing piano as if it was on the same level as playing with an imaginary friend. It's not a childish hobby, so don't treat it like one.

Third, you shouldn't reject working out. Go to the gym, take care of your body and health; you'll appreciate it in the long run and you'll probably live longer to play more piano. 


Besides that, consider creating your own. You've played all your life, and you could probably find some people interested in classical music that may not be at your level of playing, but will probably have passion for it.
Join a jazz band. It's people that are passionate for music in general, not just classical music. Expand your horizons, it sounds like you could benefit from it.
Hi, basic suburb mom approaching 40 here. I grew up playing piano and dropped it for nearly 15 years and am just taking it up again. I'm intermediate at best but am just discovering many of the classical works that were missing from my lessons as a child. My 7-year-old son loooooves listening to piano music in the car with me. It's funny because just a year ago we were listening to Taylor Swift and Dua Lipa but now its La Campanella and Moonlight Sonata 3rd mvmt. on repeat (we like fast tempos). 

I think of this as a fun little quirk in our personality. It's not something I discuss with anyone, but you're right. There really aren't many people that care to hear about piano playing, or even listen to me play, lol. I only talk about it with one really close friend, and only because she thinks I'm good at playing for some reason. 

Just know that it is REALLY cool to have any hobby, especially one that is different than truck driving, grilling, Sunday football, etc. It's what makes you a more interesting person.
In my opinion I think it's because classical is very technical and it takes a little bit more skill than like blues chords and jazz and all that jazz so I think people are kind of like veered away from it or even maybe scared of it because it's such a beautiful sound and it's not it's it's meticulously put together not like rock and roll I mean rock and roll is but I think it's because it's very technical that people veer away from it but yes I agree
There are online forums now that cater to this void. I've been a member of piano world for 12 years now. They even have regular online recitals to participate in if you want. Just requires you submit a sound file. This is where you will see all sorts from very diverse backgrounds, from anywhere in the world. Any age but mostly adults and many just starting. Some for very 1st time in 60's, 70's and up even, and very serious too and amazing how good some become so quickly. I've played for years but like many let it mostly slide through the bulk of my career. Having a group to correspond with though helped change that. I learn and play more now than ever before (mix of classical, some jazz standards and pop too). I just turned 65 few weeks ago. I once again have more time and need my daily dose of piano. Not often I need to push myself to practice anymore, it is more like habit and if it helps keep our brains fresh, that is just an added benefit. Nothing better than when a new tune starts to come together. It really can be a great and very satisfying hobby at any age. Just depends how you approach it. But it is never too late, and that is very evident in the forums. Another option perhaps if nothing more physical arises.
With all due respect, I think you’re taking piano too seriously and it’s inevitably going to negatively impact your approach to life. Perhaps there are other underlying issues causing you to feel depressed, not just the perceived sudden loss of music among your peers and social groups. 

I’m also unsure why you think playing piano isn’t “manly” enough or lacking “masculinity”. Why would people think that playing the piano is weird? This may be a personality issue or how you come across to others. 

Lastly, comparison is the thief of joy. Live your life out the way you see fit and stop allowing others to influence your personal decisions so easily.
Oh boy can I.
So relatable.

I joined a country band for some extra money and I kid you not I met some of fellow jazz nerds in it with music performance degrees. You’d be surprised who all is under lives under those cowboy hats and the lives they’ve led.
No one is stopping you from having a huge interest in classical music except yourself. Instead of being upset that others aren't as invested in classical music as you, focus your time on doing what you love and finding people who have the same passions as you.
It's similar in my guitar community. Kids learn music in high school, stop for college. And when they retired (60-70-80 years old) start guitar again. Talking about music in my circle when you are in your 30s is definitely not a popular subject. :(
Well, just have a look at what music is played nowadays. 

Even back in the 1900s, people used to play in home garage bands. Now it's gone to shit.   
Music went from rock bands (hundreds of subgenres) to crap. Let alone classical music.
I created a group of MeetUp to get together and play Schubert pieces. 

It got quite a bit of following.
I can relate in the sense that I'm the only person in my friend group to care about classical music, but I'm also not particularly surprised by it and they are all supportive of me.

I think it's natural that people will give up learning their instrument as they reach adulthood unless they do it as a career. After all, after a hard day's work, people want to relax or have fun and practicing is not a particularly fun activity for most people. My past piano teachers have even go so far as to say if I'm having fun while practicing, I'm probably doing something wrong.

Lessons and concerts are expensive. Pianos are expensive as well, and worse, living accommodations where someone is allowed to have a piano are out of reach for most people in cities, where more people are moving to.

Honestly most of the time I listen to music is in the car, and I'm guessing that's true for most people. Listening to classical music in the car is a pretty poor experience unless you are well off enough to own a luxury car.
You could learn how to play/sound contemporary so that you can jam with people in the music scene around turn in your area.  I like to go on Facebook and look up Jams near me. I bring my keyboard and set up wherever there’s a drum kit and a speaker.
I can relate, and it’s not just classical music. I have tons of non mainstream interests, it’s always hard to fit in. I have just started to get into few mainstream things just to fit in better and seem more normal lol ;__;
When I was growing up many people had pianos in their homes, as well as music collections.

Now its hard to give away an average piano, and very few collect music or have any kind of "stereo system".

The good new is there still are people out their who enjoy classical music.  You just need to find them.
Personally I am 18 years old and I am from generation Z. So I have not experienced this era but nevertheless I manage to understand you and I am moved by your speech. I also live in this world and I cross. This hypocrisy every day. My goal as a musician is to change this image and make young people love classical and romantic music. Don't stop, the pianist is a profession and a respectable passion🖤🖤🎵
I think it's not bad to get used to the idea of having a hobby that is not exactly mainstream. As long as you love it, you'll eventually find people with whom you connect. Or maybe it's rewarding enough if you keep it to yourself? I think of this trade a bit as being a monk, who studies and trains a lot alone and maybe someday shares his art. 
I feel like in general classical music and also instrumental is being appreciated less and less, especially by the younger generation. Makes me sad... Only ones I notice that still appreciate it are musicians (especially orchestral instruments)
I get it.  But here is a suggestion: join a local community chorus. Even bumf\*ck towns probably have one, but if not, check the next town over.  This gives you a group of people who also love music. The chorus may or (probably) may not do classical music, but, hey, it's music and its fun.  I've song in both types of choruses (my town and the next town over) and its just fun.  I have a shitty voice, btw, but as a life-long pianist I read music, can sight-sing, etc.

And here is another suggestion.  If you have a piano teacher, he/she probably has a more students that just you, and you can build a community by bringing them together outside of lessons. I've been playing the piano for close to 60 years, and I still take lessons.  A bunch of us who work with the same teacher get together on a regular basis to play for each other, talk about music, exchange ideas, advice, etc.

And one more: look around for others who play string or wind instruments and would like to team up to do some chamber music.  An online organization, ACMP, helps to locate others in your area with similar interests.  Also, a little google search turned up this: [https://stringsmagazine.com/how-to-start-an-adult-chamber-music-ensemble/](https://stringsmagazine.com/how-to-start-an-adult-chamber-music-ensemble/)Don't know if it's good, bad, or what, but might be worth a read.
Imagine trying to fit into the stereotype of gym bros with an IQ below 80 who get excited over the most basic shit in your late 30's. I'd much rather be alone, enjoying my music and discussing topics I actually care about with one close friend than pretending to be someone I’m not. 

That’s exhausting. Honestly, with all due respect, you're an adult and should already know this. We are a very small percentage of people who enjoy something than most don't. So, enjoy it for yourself.

When I say I play the piano, people are initially impressed, but when I start talking about it, they lose interest because they see me as boring. So, I’ve learned to share it only with those who appreciate classical music.
You need to join a community ensemble! I play tuba in an orchestra on Tuesdays and a concert band on Thursdays. Neither is as good as the youth symphony I did in high school or my college wind ensemble, but I play more often than some of my friends who studied music. It brings me so much joy, and it surrounds me with people who also enjoy classical music. No one scoffs at amateur composers, we actually have a composer in residence program specifically for them! I never get shit for saying I play classical piano for myself. I go to the symphony and opera on a fairly regular basis with people from band. We have every age from 18 to 70+.

If you don't currently play a band instrument, consider trying mallet percussion!
It is sad to see people selling their instruments or otherwise quitting after they finish school. 

I have been able to keep my music going though by playing my clarinet in a community band, playing piano at a church, and singing in a choir. I don't practice nearly enough, but I do at least pick up my instruments daily. You have to seek out your people, and admittedly that is going to be harder the smaller your community is.

My immediate family isn't musical at all, so I'm used to being the odd one out.
Thought I was in r/classicalcirclejerk
OP, I don't usually write comments, but I feel that you have a gentle, sensible soul. In terms of isolation, it could be that you are too passionate for your own good. A lot of magic in childhood stem from the ability to dive deep into your passions with no distractions and responsibilities. And it seems you've had plenty, and it's worth to be grateful for. Isn't it wonderful to know that there is a thing that will always make you calm, engaged and happy? I envy you (in a good way), OP, as my only lifelong thread to childhood (gaming) has been sewered. And yes, my pals also stopped caring about games, so I guess it's the nature of growing up.  I agree with top comment, take iniative in regard of reaching out to people with similar interest. The world stopped caring about classical piano? Who cares about the world? All that's needed is to find a couple of people with similar mindset.  
Break a leg.
I only really got into music at around 20. I've been playing for over 23 years now and for that entire time, I have not had any friends or family who have anything to do with music. A scant few have tried guitar, and gave up. One or two have tried piano. Same story. Honestly, I find it baffling and pretty damn sad! It just goes to show that you need to have a lot of motivation and persistence to push through the barriers to entry. It's expensive to get set up, to get lessons, and takes a lot of effort and patience. You really need to love the process.
Big kudos to the teachers out there who are able to keep their students motivated. The drop out rate is so high.
I will offer a perspective that you may resonate with, though it does come from the other side of your story. 

I played percussion all through middle and high school. Marched three seasons with a drum and bugle corps, too. We were an extremely large and competitive music program. This was a long time ago, and life moved on. One day, my kids opened a box and found a practice pad and sticks, and as I was showing them how to play, I realized it had been 20 years since I last played with any level of seriousness. I don't know how it had been so long, but when I tried to play, it was all still there in my head, but my hands were gone, and I put things down out of frustration and let my kids goof around. 

I remember back when I was in some honors band in high school, and the guest conductor was a professor of music from Michigan. He was wonderful, and we were a really amazing band for the two days we were together. 

At the end, when they do their little speech before the performance, he begged us to keep playing. He didn't care where. He didn't care how. A community band, in our basements, however we could, because music is just such an important part of life, and how little sense would it make to have spent thousands of hours honing our skill just to stop when we graduated. Because once you put it down, life goes on, and you never pick it up again. 

And that's what most of us did. Nobody I was in band with plays anymore (minus the ones that became band directors). That's just what happens, as our guest conductor knew. I still remember it fondly (perhaps more sunny than it actually was), but damn, I miss it. My life is full now, and there's no room for the time it would take to earn it back. I still listen, and I'll go to the symphony when I get the chance, but I'm a spectator now. 

As for your situation, if you're in a busy town, there may be more opportunities than you think. If there are band programs around, they often have need for piano accompanists for their solo and ensemble competitions. You could reach out to band directors and see, at the very least. They're always tuned into the local scene. 

Don't let it go, though. And don't let anyone tell you that you should.
"Seems" is correct, that is you.
Big time
Early 40's checking in...I feel this way and I work in the classical music industry! In college, I was of course, surrounded by all music nerds like myself. But now that I live in a suburb and have more non-music friends, I feel isolated in my love for it sometimes. One thing I did that I enjoy is join a local piano club where people play for one another every 6-8 weeks in different locations. I don't know if something like that exists in your town, but you could look into it, or see if there's a music appreciation/concert club that gets together to attend classical concerts together (some orchestras and local presenting orgs may have a "young professionals group" associated with them). If these things don't exist, you could start one? Local Facebook groups are great for that sort of thing. You could also see if a local music school has any adult chamber music programs that you could join (if you like playing music with others). I really do feel your pain with this!! I think America (assuming that's where you're located) is becoming more and more devoid of arts and culture. It stems from a lack of education when folks are young, less and less media coverage of classical music (there used to be days when orchestras were featured regularly on TV and folks like Leonard Bernstein were a household name. Now you'd be lucky if the average person has heard of Lang Lang or Dudamel), and the fact that we refuse to pay more in taxes to fund the arts (as opposed to many European countries which have orchestras largely funded by the government, for example). In my parents' generation, there was an upright piano in every home. Now you can't even GIVE away perfectly good grand pianos. People think they take up too much space.  I tried to convince a friend whose daughter was taking lessons to get an upright and she refused. They got her a shitty keyboard instead. She didn't want to commit to a real instrument until she knew her daughter would continue with it long term. I understand that, I do. But it's interesting that generations ago, it didn't matter. Having a real piano was culturally the norm and learning to play instruments was valued. Now it simply is not.   
  
But enough doom and gloom talk. You will always be able to find your niche. Unless you live somewhere really off the beaten path, I'm certain there are likeminded classical loving folks in your age range in your area!!! Good Luck! (and keep at it with your partner... maybe she's more visual and would like a multimedia classical concert or something more semi-staged, or an opera or ballet)
There is nothing about music that is "unmanly" .

 I wouldn't hide it if I were you. Maybe joke about it when meeting new people like " "I like this and that and oh I'm a huge piano snob! And I also like these thing" 

When meeting new people you're usually trying to find a common thread and you never know who might latch onto what. And if piano isn't someone's thing that's fine you mentioned several topics too.

But every once in a while you may get someone who is really into it, trying to learn, wants to know more blah blah blah. 

What if the person you're talking to is in exactly the same position and is hiding it away too?
At some point ppl grow apart because of life. You have to accept that fact. If the music is in you and you can afford to, why not consider moving to a place closer to music events and others who love music? You can also enjoy music differently by teaching others to play. Maybe your kids. Maybe volunteer to teach. There should be various ways to enable you to use your musical instrument. There are others who may feel the same way as you growing up so try find them online and maybe if luck is on your side you might find some close to where you are. Time to meet new ppl who share the same passion as you!
Most people don't give two shits about classical music. It saddens me, and I hate to state it so bluntly, but it's just a fact of the times we live in, so there's no reason trying to skirt it. I got super lucky and found a girlfriend who loves classical music and loves going to the symphony, but literally not a single other person in the rest of my circle likes or cares about classical music even slightly.

On rare occasions, friends ask me to play piano for them, but most of them find a trivially easy video game transcription far more exciting than a ferociously difficult piece of classical music. That said, I don't hide this passion from anyone. It's part of who I am. But I have plenty of other hobbies and bond with people over things that aren't music.
I only began playing aged 40, during the first lockdown I bought a piano. It was the best thing I ever did. So I didn't have the grounding in piano playing from childhood but I did grow up with classical being played in the house by my Dad. I have interests in other genres but do very much like classical and often go to listen to live concerts when I can. BUT, I relate to your sense of it being a private passion in the sense I have nobody else to enjoy it with. My partner likes the odd thing here and there and we have been to the Proms in London many times but I feel entirely alone in appreciating  classical. People do look at it being pretentious, you're right but who needs their approval?! You do sound like you are missing a part of your life you previously had.
Speak about what you're interested in and listen to people speak about what they're interested in. It will teach you which people are normal and which people are retarded (those who try to attack you for having interests), you ditch the retarded ones in a pit of indifference, and you keep the good friends you'll find.

Applies to anything in life. And yes, even if it's a boss. Do you want to be liked by the retarded boss in order to prosper in a company that favours the retarded? That just leads to lawsuits and bankrupcy.

Stay human, don't mix with the NPCs.

Kind regards.
Isn't that why most of us are here? It's hecka lonely out there for classical and jazz listeners/musicians compared to let's say someone who likes EDM, pop, or country. Way more connections to be had, but to the fair the music is so much more digestible and accessible for the common people whereas classical music requires sometimes 30-45 min of uninterrupted focus. It's okay though, because the rare occasions we do run into each other is even more of a special treat :)
Yes, I don’t play an instrument but grew up in a household that had an appreciation for it. Sadly, I believe something like classical music has to be experienced during your formative years growing up. This is when I would listen to full symphonies Brahms, Berlioz, Beethoven, etc., etc.. I think if you do not get this early exposure, then you will never have an interest in classical music. Also generations ago, in the US many of our parents were from Europe or Eastern Europe, Russia and it was ingrained in the culture to teach your child classical music . I went to a classical music concert at a local university a few years ago. I don’t think anyone there was under 70 years old. It was very depressing.
I’ll join ur new club teach me piano
One thing I'll say is that not everyone is going to share your interests, but that being said anyone who sees fit to judge you as stuck up or pretentious for your interests is not worth hanging around. There are people who know better than me where you can go to embrace your hobby more fully. My first thought was maybe you could join a church as a pianist, but that may not appeal to you if you arent a religious person. However, I just wanted to encourage you that your tastes dont make you wierd.
Can relate 100%. Had a similar thought last week.
I think it’s more important for you to explore how you wanna apply your piano skill in your daily life. A YouTube channel? Accompanying for a choir? Playing for a dinner.? Write your own composition? Classical music does seem to me a very enclosed circle, it’s only accessible to city people where a large concert hall and conservatory exist. But it’s also true that art is a way we divert ourselves when we have free time, while your friends and peers have chosen to invest their time in other area of life like work and family, etc.  If music is where you wanna invest then you have to find your group of people even if you have to move to a larger city, you have to make that adult decision…
If you can sight read well and play above an intermediate level, there is a lot of joy in accompanying instrumentalists, vocalists, choral groups, playing in the pit for community and school musicals, etc. Making music with others brings you out of isolation and increases your chances of meeting people with a similar passion, and building a network. It also broadens your horizons where you may come to appreciate other genres. I was a piano major in college and had an extremely narrow focus on classical piano. I accompanied choral groups to help pay for college, came to enjoy that, and eventually realized I was not going to be the next Horowitz. In the process, I developed a skill that was very marketable and has kept me busy for the last 50 years or so. I also expanded my skills to include organ and keyboards, choral conducting, music direction, music technology, etc. Sight reading is really the key to this path however. Without that skill, you simply would have to spend too much time learning music. If you put yourself in positions where you have to learn a particular group of pieces by a certain day, your sight reading and ability to learn new music quickly should gradually improve, and with that, your self-confidence. Now at age 75, I still enjoy playing classical pieces and going to the symphony to hear the latest greatest young concert pianists.
Don't give up, the music is a part of you, don't let it be extinguished.
Well, thank you for posting because I have felt exactly like you do from time to time. It is helpful to know that others are experiencing the same thing. I also grew up with classical music and played flute in band and orchestra in junior high, high school and university. I do miss it! 

I am nearly 70 years old now but have never given up practicing. Not that I do it too regularly but I  can say nevertheless that I have made a huge amount of progress over the last 60 years. 

We bought our daughter a piano when she was about 14 but she has since left home now and the poor piano was not getting used. So one day, last year, I was like- hey I can learn piano, why not? So I am doing that as well now on my own. But yeah, a tad lonely. I get it. I really need to find a teacher- that might help! 

Have you heard of Two Set Violin on YT? Fun to watch very serious violin students indulge their passion in a very entertaining way. I can relate to them very much. 

I love some of the suggestions that others have posted here and I hope you will find your tribe- they are out there somewhere! Good luck!
Definitely an issue with who you’re hanging out with. There are millions of people who are instantly mesmerized by live piano. Because it is a dying skill, it’s only become more special. Old folks in particular really really appreciate hearing someone play songs they havent heard in decades. Hell even dogs generally love a pianist. Even the anxious ones are instantly relaxed and soothed by live piano. 

It’s reasonable to feel music is dead or dying and to feel some grief. But it is also immortal.
Enjoy your uniqueness.  I am 77 and have come back to the piano after too much time with other instruments.  PIty those who have left music behind.
Move to Europe. Germany or France. Be happy.
Is there a college anywhere near?
It seems like you've just got to find new people to expand your circle
Being creative or artsy always separates us from some others but there are definitely ways to find new friends that share our love of classical music, piano, and expressing ourselves in music. I honestly feel sorry for those that don't have a musical outlet be it playing an instrument, singing, church choir, dancing. They miss a lot not knowing the great wealth of older musical compositions.
I don't know about that. As a classical pianist, I see classical music making sort of a revival. I hear people listen to it at work all the time, and people even listen to it in their cars because it's relaxing. Better than anything some Tyrone rap clown could come up with.
I hear you completely. Try  making a YouTube channel featuring piano content. The amount of return you get for all the effort put into to making high-quality recordings of advanced pieces is disheartening. The masses of people would rather watch Rihanna, TSwift, or some other pop star singing over the same 3 chords.

  
The only way I make a successful living while still doing piano is teaching. In this day and age- there really isn't money in performing anymore, and certainly not performing classical music
So you hang around with people who aren't interested in classical music and are surprised and disappointed when they are not interested in classical music? 
Don't quit. After two lumbar fusions and a third herniated disc, I've had to give up playing tuba after 24yrs and I've never been more unhappy.
I tell you what it'd be far out if you went out busking classical music I think people would be pretty impressed by that I mean I would hear somebody playing the blues and be like that's great but somebody playing classical music or something to that extent would really blow my mind they were busting out there
It didn't disappear, you just grew up in a bubble. It sucks, but you eventually come to the realization that nobody cares about your music as much as you do unless they also play. This is true even when listening to music. Most people don't actually care much about music, they listen to it as a distraction while doing things. I don't know anyone in my family that has playlists for different styles, subgenres, and even moods within them. I must have over 30-40 different playlists for metal and EDM subgenres alone. Even my brother who listens to metal doesn't seem to do so very often and always listens to the same few artists. People who aren't into music just don't care much about it. I get the same reaction to telling people I play and listen to classical as I get when I tell them I listen to metal, "but not any metal, specifically east European and Japanese metalcore and hyperpop or breakcore influenced fusion metal." You just need to find a group that is engaged in the same hobbies. And unfortunately these sorts of hobbies have little if any representation in the countryside. 


- Signed, someone temporarily in the east US of bumfuck nowhere. Getmeoutofherelol.
Although other types of music might not be your thing, see if you can jam with other musicians in town. Rock, blues, jazz etc, Im sure you could pick up that language easily. It seems you dont just miss classical, you miss other musicians.
What do you do for a job OP? Can you teach piano on the side?
It seems you're in the wrong place, the wrong circles. Try to do something about it.
I guess I am not sure what you expected here?

I understand where you are coming from, you have put a lot of time and energy into something you are passionate about, and you aren't getting much recognition.

But what did you expect? Do you have the same interest and passion in other people's passions? Are you interested in hearing someone talk about pickleball or bird watching, someone's country singing?

I am curious if your relationship with piano is something that you do for internal satisfaction, or something that you have done for external praise. My question is this, if you were the only person left on the world that played piano, would you still do it? If yes, congratulations, you have a passion, you have something to devote time to.   
  
But no one owes you any attention or praise, no one owes you a sudden change in musical taste to accommodate your passion. 

Be grateful that you have something you care so much about, if you want to make a living on music, yes there is a good chance that something needs to change, but if you're satisfied with it as a passion be grateful for that!

If you're looking for conversation, try making some posters for a classical music group and leaving them at cafe's, libraries, music stores, etc.

If you don't have the scene/community you are looking for, don't be afraid to create it!
Why do you feel the need for everyone around you to be insanely passionate about the same thing as you? If you want to be around ppl who love piano why not seek out and engage with communities focused on piano instead of complaining that people who are around you for other reasons (e.g. work in the same building as you) don’t also love piano
no offense but the music has been around for centuries

i think you can find people who share your passionate interest but this thread is pure cope

you are not marginalized. Classical music is some of the most predominant genres in the world. Get out of your bubble, learn jazz or something. sheesh
This is a top idea! Volunteering at a classical music festival is something feasible I could do that wouldn’t require me to quit my job. I will prioritize this idea and look for some upcoming festivals. Thanks for the suggestion.
As a performer at Kuhmo this past summer, I wholeheartedly agree. I moved to Finland from the states and am amazed at the support for classical music here vs the states..
I went to school in NYC but in smaller cities it's definitely becoming harder and harder to find classical music relevance in the community. Festivals are the best, for performers, staff, and devoted audience and music lovers.
where might one start in looking for these kinds of festivals? just google "classical music festivals near me" ?
love the the office reference
Yes this! Also if you have a symphony near you most do “youth” tickets (under 40 or 50 most places) that are extremely cheap. I go frequently because of that and I feel so at home. I used to bring my husband (he really dislikes classical) and felt silly crying through a large part of hearing The Four Seasons live for the first time, but now I go alone and see lots of other classical fans tearing up.
A lot of the older generation music is like that my grandfather my great grandfather played the trumpet in the Boston pops and that was big time for him and nowadays nobody has any idea what that is. The younger generation is a quick throw away generation I don't think they take the time to understand that there was other kind of music out there.
Living the dream!
Yes, while online is no substitute for real life, I’m thankful for this sub. Maybe I’ll reopen that box of looking for people to accompany or something.
This is a great suggestion. If there's a college near you with a voice or instrumental program, the students will likely be studying classical rep and they are often required to give recitals. Performing and collaborating with other musicians might help scratch that itch and there very well may be other classical events happening at the school of music that you can be involved in or attend.
Idk why, but the same happened to me. 

Somehow when I was 19 I fell in love with classical music, which also inspired me to focus much more on piano
This is actually a pretty recent phenomenon.


Music used to be a big part of folk culture. Whether an instrument or singing, knowing how to do something was fairly common. People would play and sing at all kinds of events, or just whenever, throughout most of human history.


Right now we're in one of the worst creative bankruptcies in history.
Yep, I have experienced this. I always wanted to learn to play piano since I was young and as a 27 year old adult, bought myself an old piano and started learning. My boyfriend said 'aren't you a little old?!' This was followed with criticism from others too. I told a colleague about it who said 'you don't need people like that in your life'. Needless to say that pos negative ex is out of my life. 

I stupidly put too much pressure on myself to get pro lessons and sit exams after learning a lot myself and turned it from a hobby I was passionate about, to a chore. I've not returned to it since and I'm disappointed about it, but I'll get back to it some day.

Classical music is the only type of music that moves me emotionally. I love it and didn't have any interest in learning to play anything else. I rarely mention it to others for fear of being perceived as pretentious (or attempting to be). 

A girl I worked with went to a classical music festival in Austria and really enjoyed it. It sounds like something you might really enjoy and find like-minded individuals.

Also, side note, my uncle who played piano by ear as a child started learning to play the saxophone in his late 50's and that's the kind of role model I want in my life.
I would suggest that music is not a hobby for some of us. Music is the language of the soul, for many. And, without it, we are lessened. 

There is wonderful research going on about the brain and music, including dementia. As a retired musician who has played in memory care centers, I can attest to the fact that music is the last to leave. People who no longer talk or feed themselves, will sing (or mumble) to a familiar song in that setting. Rich stuff.
This is all true.
Thanks friend, this simple comment meant a lot to me!
Good point.
[deleted]
Least obvious chatgpt generated reply 🤣
One can only hope. Happily, we only need look to Japan, Korea, and Eastern Europe as examples of where classical music is still flourishing.
Spotify artists are paid per stream, not minutes listened.

It's financially beneficial to artists to release long albums with lots of short songs.

Music (currently) isn't really any shorter than music in the 50s and 60s. Music in the 70s and 80s peaked in length before starting to decrease in length through the 90s and on again.

> Something I keep in mind is that musical tastes of the masses change with the times. The current era us ruled by music that fits the short attention spans and dopamine pathways that social media has cultivated.

This is why others think you're pretentious.
I think this is a sound observation.  👍🏻
I hear that. As an adult, it’s not so much about explicit mocking as people just can’t relate and consider it odd, outdated, etc. unless you run in certain circles.

But I’m sure the region I moved to for work has something to do with it. I could move back to a major city and put a lot of effort into making new friends… but that’s pretty hard in late 30’s.
😂 good one
I think you’re over romanticizing the actual success of classical music in east Asia. I very much doubt Korean or Japanese teenagers listen to classical music en masse and discuss it like they would with hip hop or K-pop.
I’ve spent a total of probably 2 years in Europe in y 20s and 30s. Lived in Netherlands, studied in Spain and worked in Italy. I miss it so much. I met so many people there I vibed with. Maybe I’ll move back. I’m in Australia now and Sydney is an amazing city, public pianos, and I hate to say it, but tons of Asians who play piano, since it’s so big there. I lived in Asia for a while too, but it’s a lot harder to connect with locals. If I don’t end up loving it here, Europe it may be. Tal vez Italia o España porque hablo un poquito de español.
Yeah. I know about her. She and Yuja Wang are my favorites.
That’s awesome. Thanks for sharing.
Thanks, that’s a good idea. I joined PianoStreet 10 years ago, but it felt like it was full of pretentious a**holes, so I left. maybe PianoWorld is a kinder place, perhaps I’ll give it a shot.
Haha… thanks for your response. I actually did grow up in a bubble, good call. And you couldn’t be more right about actually CARING about music. Few people do. I have over 450 Spotify playlists. I used to carefully curate my collection of MP3’s back in the day. I have a collection of carefully organized CD’s in pristine condition organized by genre in these nice lockboxes with drawers. Most people never go to that trouble, because music is just like you said, a background distraction. I tend to go very deep into things. In general, most others seem to just kind of float mindlessly through life distracting themselves with bad music… while you sound like your tastes are different from mine (mostly 90’s/2000’s instrumental electronica), it sounds like we’re #inthesameboat
What does "cope" mean as you're using the word?
I was going to suggest this also! Lots of classical music organizations and festivals need volunteers to help run events, and may be especially interested in having younger people involved. Depending on the type of organization, there may be opportunities to sit on a board or committee, which definitely puts you in contact with like-minded people and lets you help out with a cause that you care about. :)
This is a great idea. 
Also:
if there’s a college or museum within a reasonable distance, you could offer to give free concerts. Or at the local high school too, really. 
And giving music lessons.
Wow, much respect. Not just anyone gets to play in Kuhmo. Since this is the piano subreddit, I assume you played the piano there? When I was there in the 90s/00s, I saw Sokolov live for the first time. 

The festival director at the time said "You should go listen to him. He is considered by many experts to be the best living pianist". I've since come to really appreciate his clinical and chill interpretations of music. He rarely seems to be in a hurry to finish a piece and he's an excellent pianist for it, whom I use as a gauge for my own playing quite often. 

Back then I didn't get it, so I left a bit underwhelmed.
I just tried it, and believe it or not halfway through that, it was one of the auto complete suggestions, and I got a couple of hits!

Edit, except the #1 hit was for 2022, and doesn't look like there's one in the next year.
My country, Finland, is a well-known "festival country". It's a small country, so we are concentrating on a couple of big festivals per theme. So there are maybe five bigish jazz festivals each year, there is one huge opera festival, there are a couple of classical music festivals, a metal festival called "pain" (Tuska), a hipster festival called "Flow" etc etc. 

Since we have very distinct seasons, all or most festivals happen in the summer and the slate is wiped clean each year. Winter is the time when the organisations work on next year's festival, handle the bookings of artists, plan the itineraries, the program etc. And then in the summer it kicks off again. 

What I'm trying to say is that where I live, everyone more or less knows the names of all these significant festivals and how close they are to you. Finding them is not the issue. Finding one that resonates with what you would like to work with is the hard part. Which festival has the best community, the best program, the best artists, the best overal experience for you as a volunteer? 

If you're from a country with less pronounced seasons, they may happen any time of the year and if the country is very big, the amount of different festivals may be so large that you haven't heard of them all. Then it helps to know how a festival is generally carried out and maybe even attend some as a paying guest one year and then look into volunteering next year if you like it a lot. Internet is certainly your friend, so Googling it is probably a very good starting point if you don't know the names of festivals that interest you already. 

Also, don't discount competitions. There are several large piano competitions all over the world and they need all kinds of help just like festivals. Again, Google is your friend. 

Let's say you're from Alaska. Apparently there is an "Anchorage Chamber Music Festival" that you would probably have heard about if you lived in Alaska. The main festival is July 23rd to August 2nd next year. There is also a fund raising concert on December 21st. In a hypothetical situation I would just dig out their contact information or find the contact form on their "contact us" page and shoot them a quick message: "Hey, I'm a 19 year old amateur pianist from Anchorage. I would love to work in your festival organisation. Do you need volunteers?". To which they would probably reply "Thank you for your message. Could you give our coordinator and head of operations Christina a call? We have lots of volunteers in all kinds of tasks and typically accept applications from January each year". You have to show that you have something to offer and are eager to work for their cause. 

Festival work consist of this relentless work around the year trying to pave the way for the perfect event. Then it culminates in this giant explosion of activity that takes only a few weeks, after which comes a period of sadness that it is over and then everything repeats again. If the festival was succesful. Festivals can lose money and there is no guarantee it will happen next year, so maybe also look into the financial numbers of each festival and try to find one that is successful. The overal atmosphere will be much better if the big picture is something everyone believes in.
Have a listen to Peter Schreier - An die ferne Geliebte

A simple melody, but such a genius piano accompaniment. 

Or

Argerich / Maisky - Bach 1029 adagio

More a duet than accompaniment


Music to make you happy
That sounds like a great plan! 

If you play any other instruments or sing you could also look for groups to join?
I don't know if we can call it a total creative bankruptcy, though.  It's a bit of a paradox.  We have easy access to all sorts of recorded music, which gives "common folk" (I would include myself in this, as I am not an exceptional performer) less incentive to practice and perform as an adult.  (As a kid, your parents are essentially a captive audience.)

But at the same time, we've never had more widespread access to instruments and instruction.  For a while I was renting and could play a digital piano with headphones and keep up my practice better than if I would have needed to use a traditional piano, because I both wouldn't have been able to move one into my rental and also would have been really restricted on when I could have played it.

Also, for those who play, there is a wide variety of music available to them to be inspired by.  This is also kind of paradoxical, though, because it doesn't seem to me like we get as rich of variety overall as when different regions had their own styles and artists would really delve deep into their regional style.
Well, "recent" meaning since the invention of records. In those times before records there were also waaay more jobs for musicians at different levels because every event that desired musical entertainment required musicians, or people of the upper/upper middle class entertained themselves.  That's why there was a much higher payoff, even if you were not at the top level. That was a long time ago, though, and laymen musical education and pursuit has been in decline ever since. I do remember someone's dad playing the guitar at a campfire and the kids singing, from when I was a child (≈30 years ago). But nowadays I feel like even that is super out of the ordinary.
No we aren't.  More people are creating more art in various disciplines than ever before.

Most people didn't play anything, that's why the folks that could play were valued.  Yes, everybody else sang or danced or listened, mostly - but, that's the same now as it was.

Personally - I'm a visual artist, zero interest in making music.  Zero interest in live music.   I was made to learn piano, and hated every second of it.

Not everybody feels the affinity for music that you do, or even for the genres you like.  That doesn't mean the world has less creativity, it just means you niche is no longer as central.
Last couple sentences here are powerful. Wow.
No, it's me :)
Well, even my teacher has mistaken my response as ai before, so I'm not surprised.
I was about to say the same thing, but didn’t want to be rude. Perhaps ChatGPT was trained on their comment. Now that would be a compliment.

PS sorry you got downvoted, I think you made a fair observation. It’s only going to get worse as AI advances. Dark Internet.
I did not say what you quote. That was someone else’s comment.
Actually speaking as a [Spotify artist myself](https://open.spotify.com/artist/03fFgg9RI1A45YBNlNqtIY?si=mGVg7enQTVWzojXF6FK31Q), Spotify pay per stream varies quite a bit, depending on many factors. And length of track and minutes listened does generally pay more. That being said, majority of people today wouldn't want to listen to a 10 min track as compared to a 2 min.
I think you’re just describing making friends as adults in general ;) it’s hard no matter what your interests are
It’s definitely not “en masse” like say Taylor Swift is over here or K-Pop over there, but it’s certainly on a whole other level of popularity than it is in countries like the US and U.K. Most young people here haven’t even heard of the name Mozart.

I have contacts with people who live in South Korea and other parts of Asia and many teenagers do discuss classical music in casual conversation. 

That’s unheard of outside of music conservatoires over here.
I tend to prefer the modern revolution of metal and EDM actually (check out Sleep Token, he's got some awesome piano pieces. E.g Atlantic). Tbh I think old 80's 90's metal is mostly pretty bland. But ya. Anyone outside a hobby generally doesn't care for it. I hope to someday have the money for my own cd collection of albums. I don't think the streaming model is really sustainable as is, and want to have a backup lol. 
instead of recognizing the absolute hegemony of western classical music in modern musical tastes, OP is coping over their loss of a vibrant musical community. Instead of broadening their horizons, they're having a pity party

classical music / piano is going strong. It's like complaining that Shakespeare doesn't get enough play and no one wants to do a play with you. get a grip
yes, Seppo is a great guy, and has since started a few other festivals, one that I participated in helsinki this summer. A pianist, yes! Sokolov still comes to Helsinki -- his attention to every single movement he makes is what defines his precision and music-making. A unique magician in the piano world these days.
thank you so much for this amazing response! i am saving it for future reference and am excited to begin this personal journey!!
Thanks dude
Thank you for your response. It communicated clearly your friendly intentions, desire to help, and encouraging attitude. Authenticity certainly is about embracing who we are and what brings us joy. ;)
[deleted]
I wasn't quoting you, nor was the reply to your comment.

To speak more generally, this *attitude* is why people think others with this type of attitude are pretentious.

> I too should just grow up and do manly things like my coworkers and other men around me: work out, get excited about country music, drive a big truck, talk louder. 

*This* is what makes *you* come off as pretentious. You clearly think you're better than your peers.
That doesn't do a thing to explain what "cope" means.  It's a recent Anerican teenager innovation and I am neither American nor do I follow the media American teenagers use.

Just define it.
You are ahead of the game. I live by the rule to always assume something online is "fake" first, and then scrutinize for authenticity before letting my mind commit my emotion to it. 

Especially browsing reddit. Assume every video is not what the headline suggests. Assume every clip of audio or video is taken out of context. Assume every post has an agenda nowadays. 

Can't tell you how many posts are upvoted 10s of thousands of times on the front page of reddit only for me to click it and immediately be able to tell there's more not shown than shown that completely negates the point the poster is presenting.  Clips during ongoing world events that are from a decade earlier in a different location. 

I've been duped too many times watching a video only to scroll a bit where people explain why it's fake and me feeling like a dummy.
Oh ok, I misunderstood you.
Once again the arrival of the negation of an individual's perceptions arrives. No one has a right to mock another's journey. Yet here you are. Another reminder that there are folks who enjoy stopping on  another person's take on life.
"coping" refers to behavior that seeks positive affirmation that aligns with their current viewpoint, where the implication is that their current viewpoint is misguided. For example, you might mock someone who posts something on social media by telling them to "cope more", which means you are saying both that their opinion is wrong and that they're posting in the hopes of getting people to agree with them so they can feel better about themselves.
Google the word. You ever hear of someone "coping with loss"?

He's "coping" with the loss of his community. I literally spelled it out. Try to keep up
Yes, I think this is why my instinct is always to sort by controversial although I think there’s also a small shitty part of me that likes drama

I like how all they had to do is say oh no it is me even my teacher says I sound like ChatGPT and everyone’s like yep, that’s legit .

I worked for scale AI and I can smell this shit a mile away, but the thing is that that comment itself is not even one that you need special familiarity to be able to tell  lol
Thanks, I would never have guessed any of that from the contexts I've seen.

Where does it come from?
We pulled keys out of a decaying piano and made something cool.
Made by Gepettos Guild 
This proves that people will literally do anything to not practice the piano
How heavy is it? Cool as fuck either way.
Honestly that is way cooler than I was expecting
Holy Mackerel I initially was "oh no, not another wood turning/epoxy video" and ready to keep doom scrolling while sitting on the throne. Lo, this ended up being the most interesting and original use of those old keys I could think of. From a musician who dabbles in guitar and piano playing, I would love to have one like this.
That's great!

For your next trick, can you make a piano out of a busted guitar?
Sweet keytar
Blasphemy !
I love this so much.  I'm a dual instrument player.  Played guitar longer than I have played piano.  This would be so great.
Thanks for making it a Tele.
That's not cool, that's fucking awesome
Analog Keytar!
Surprise /r/guitars crossover episode!
While my key-tar gently weeps
I think it would of been cooler to keep the keys uncovered in resin, less practical though
They turned him into his arch-nemesis
So… what do you play?

Piano or guitar.

Tf you mean “or”-
Nice 👌🏼
Sick
i thought the whole epoxy thing had ended 😐
Darn that's cool!
That’s absolutely amazing. 😻
I usually hate novelty guitars but this one is pretty damn great. Awesome work.
Now do it the other way around and make a piano from a guitar.
My heart stopped for a moment there
Cool! Is the other one a Les Paul?
Very nice! Run it through a guitar synth and play a few hammer ons while pretending to play the keys. That will mess with the heads of any musos in the audience.
Source of the Pixies piano cover?
Oh the brass! I love it!
ATGE
r/guitar might light this.
That is absolutely gorgeous!
Oh one hand I was like "no 100 year old piano! Why?!?" But then I was like "OM that's so cool and amazing. Making something so amazing out of something so broken!" Good job. Amazing job. Happy craftin'
Jfc what abomination is this
I need this in my life
Gorgeous
Js fix the damn piano.. but damn that was beautiful
That's it, I'm declaring war on the guitarists
 This looks kinda off
Incredible!
Lol
I bursted out laughing
He’s out of line but he’s right
I'm literally on my phone right now instead of practicing note reading on my piano.
lol I feel attacked
Not bad. It’s still mostly wood. 8.5 but I probably could have chambered it with holes going into the side to get down to 7.5 or less.
My thoughts exactly
https://www.gepettosguild.com/p/piano-telecaster/
Thanks for the praise!
Yes. I’ll need 50 of them.
It’s a gretsch jet. I’m more excited for that one to be done honestly.
YouTube. First one in there
MOOD LMAO I started learning this year and sometimes I just take a minute and scroll through music reddit
Oooh, would chambered holes in the body change resonance of sound in any meaningful way? Yall made a master piece, be proud :).
8,5 kg?
Thanks for link, now to convince the wife this is the right decision ;)
Please dont
Hahaha same situation. Bought a digital piano in December and "learning" now.
Hahaha same situation. Bought a digital piano in December and "learning" now.
Considering most of the tone comes from the bridge and pickups. Probably not.
Tell her you found the keys to her heart.
Well from one beginner piano player to another if you wanna shoot me a dm and we can share eachothers learning experience feel free!
Good to know!
Will do cheers!
Managed not to stop. A lot to improve still.
Things to improve : pedal, accuracy, transition  between themes, that stupid tremolo part, allowing to breath between big jumps and dynamic changes. 

Also broke that low g sharp string sad.
That was absolutely amazing, great work!
Absolutely awesome 👌
Outstanding!!!!!
Thank you for posting the whole thing! You are so talented, and congrats on the discipline. Best piece of music ever written imo. Hope I can come close to your level one day
Damn -- goals dude. That's awesome.
My favourite piano piece, thanks for the performance.
Legendary! One of my favorite pieces of all time, so powerful, you captured the emotion so well, bravo!
This is my piano. There are many like it but this one is mine! Without me, my piano is nothing. Without my piano, I am nothing… 

Incredible. And great emotion. Very inspiring stuff.
Excellent work! Now apply those blazing arpeggios to Bowsers Castle.
Damn i love it
this is such a great piece. I think you have so much potential to infuse more organic passion into the part between 60 and 90 seconds of the video, I forget what it's called but it's such an expressive passage.

Beginning "scales" are amazing. and I love your general vibe. this was truly awesome to watch, I learned this piece many years ago and forgot. don't make that mistake, keep it fresh and improving!!!
Holy fucking shit!!! Amazing is an understatement
Beautiful. How long to get to this place?
Fantastic performance. The fact that you still see so much to improve just highlights what a monster of a piece this is.
my lifelong goal is to learn this piece someday. Amazing work!!
Knew what this was with the sound off haha. Good stuff mate.
That's a dramatic improvement from when you posted before!  I feel like you can call it a finished product with no shame now
Just played this piece a few months ago, it's a very challenging piece as my hands are small and weak, and my neighbors and my mom suffered during my practices. It turned out great though, but apparently the Japanese didn't enjoy it very much. One of my neighbors got so annoyed that they called the cops to stop me from banging the piano at 10:30 pm!
Just learnt in the hall of the mountain king. How long until I can do something like this?
I’m learning piano, so this is absolutely insane! *Love it!*
Fabulous! So clean!

As for your own list of ‘need to improves’: I think your pedal sounds great! That one handed chromatic bit into the trill always sounds weird when I play it, and here it sounds fantastic! Accuracy wise, I think I only heard one or two wrong notes? Don’t beat yourself up over that! ‘That stupid tremolo part’ 🤣 sounded very controlled tbh… it’s so hard to keep those bits quiet and accurate rhythm wise but you nailed it. The transitions between themes were really nice actually - none of them felt jarring at all. The dynamics - there could be slightly more variation, but it’s probably just the recording. The only tiny thing I noticed was the right hand Alberti bass bits was quite loud while your left hand was playing the melody… you could get away  with bringing the melody out a bit more.

Honestly a pleasure to watch!!! 👏🏻👏🏻
some ling ling work 👌🏻
This made me cry, breathtaking. Thankyou
I thoroughly enjoyed this.
This is inspiring!
You're my inspiration for the day! :-)
Hats off friend!
Wonderful!   I love this piece!  Absolutely awesome performance!
Audio was muted but could tell within the first 5 seconds that this was moonlight sonata. Great work.
This is my favorite piano piece of all time, and you played it with so much passion and emotion! Bravo! 👏🏼👏🏼👏🏼
[deleted]
I love it. Great work and keep working on the improvement.
Beautiful :)
Beautiful, thank you!
Great interpretation
That's impressive! How would you suggest for someone to think when they want to play piano? I think sequentially for now and it's hard to play with both hands independently, unless only one of them presses something at a given time..
Awesome!! I’m impressed by how you managed that cruel speed
fucking awesome
That was amazing how long you been practicing this
Wow congrats! Keep going!
Hi! Okay, I will start with criticism because that's easier that first typing out all the things you did well haha 
You are far better at the piano than myself so I'll ignore technicality and focus on the things that are pretty much universal in music and can be translated to and from other instruments (my main instrument is the violin ^^ Also please excuse my poor language, I'm not fluent in English music jargon sadly)

I personally found the two accents at the end of each main theme run (the one from the very beginning) to be a bit too much and sudden, almost gave me a heart attack the first time haha. To play a little crescendo could help and try to not let them jump out too much.

Connected to that, remember that while playing your heart out is fantastic but give the audience some leeway to relax and don't make everything super exciting, it gets a bit tedious to listen to if there is constant action.

What I mean is don't just play loud and epic in the main theme parts with all the runs and whatnot and play quiet and intimate in the more calmer parts but to not play every run and especially every accent like it's the most important one of the entire piece. Choose certain spots that you want to highlight and give it everything you got there but choose them wisely and scarcely. For the rest, try to keep your horses contained so that the spots you really want to shine can shine amongst other similar parts.

Above all is the ever difficult topic of the musical direction or how I call it the bow. It's one whole piece and everything should be connected, I sometimes felt a disconnection between parts.  The different themes sometimes seemed like blocks next to each other, try to connect and transition them so it's a smooth and rounded out experience (but this might be what you yourself meant with having to work on transitions). Try to, at all times, play either towards a specific spot or calm down from a specific spot, always have this goal in mind and you will automatically create tension!

About the things you did well there are too many to name, the ones I found especially well done were your more quiet piano/pianissimo parts, so emotional and beautifully played, your trillers were really clean, the runs were pretty smooth and I just love how much you felt the piece.

I played the first movement a couple of years ago, moonlight sonata certainly is a beautiful piece and you played it really well, nice job man!

Hope i was able to at least kind of explain what I mean ^^
Very well played, sometimes tho(could be that I’m wrong ) it looks like your fingers or just yourself is like stressed. Try to relax a bit more at some parts.
Name?
Why does the piano have a blanket?

Is it cold?
Effing unbelievable. You played so great, on par with Claudio Arrau’s version on YouTube.
Your fingers are too flat
Get rid of the facial expressions and you're good to go! Kinda lost me in the second half the pulse starts slowing down and dragging.
I've had too much coffee and not enough sleep. Mental blank, which piece is this?
I don't know how to play the piano, but I know what he was playing while on mute. With those facial expressions, I bet it sounds amazing.
I could trll shat piece with the volume off lol
how i imagine i play
Bro hitting that MS3 piece so hard he broke a string. 

Rubber ducky and teddy approve, and so do I ✌️
Bravo sir
Very good
Amazing! What is the name of the piece?
I can just look at what you’re playing and know what is without sound, every time you go up the scale and do the bam, I can hear it in my head
Face reactions makes it better
Good work man! And thank you to share this video!
Well you’ve inspired my practice today, that was amazing
u/savevideo
Wow! I wish I could play like this. Great job! I enjoyed a lot.
Amazing! How long have you been playing?
awesome man
That’s really REALLY good 👏 
It’s my favorite piano sonata btw 😝
See what happens if you raise your seat an inch.
my hands hurt just watching this, ur so talented!!!
What is the name of that cumbia? I love it!
Incredible….
I had the video on mute, and I still know what piece you're playing... I never took it off mute, so I can't really comment how it sounds, but it looks like you did a good job!
genius
Very nice!
Super inspirational, love the passion, thanks for sharing!!
Really really nice work.  Good phrasing and cadence.  For more clarity out of the right hand slow it waaaay down and play each note staccato, and then again the same way while keeping your hand and fingers as CLOSE to the keys as possible.
This has been one of my favorite pieces of music ever since I first heard it in 1984 and you play it beautifully and it is so bombastic and raucous and wonderful. Great job!
Outstanding
Fire.  Straight Fire.
It was amazing. How long have you been practicing the piece for? I’m pretty much half a year in and can sort of play solfeggio completely and wanted to play moonlight sonata mvmt 1-3 for my next pieces but i heard mvmt 3 was too difficult for people who haven’t played for years. So not sure if I should start learning it or not. Anyways that was amazing keep up the good work!
Great work. Thank you for posting.
What is this piece called?
Superb, concert-worthy.
OH MY GOD MAN you are amazing
I always enjoy everything you post on this subreddit! Thanks for sharing, awesome job!
Just started my piano journey and you sir are an inspiration!
Ugh I want to learn this movement so bad. Sounds great, excellent job :)
What piece is this? You're incredible!
Bro when i saw your fingers i said you are the Vladimir Horowitz of our generation!Props for being able to play with your fingers like that!
As a piano beginner, I see this as a dream performance. You absolutely killed it
I love your facial expressions and emotions bro, good job!!!
Great work on a demanding 3rd movement. You're tempting me to try it.
You have energized me with your successful run, Congratulations! I recently played through some pieces of piano music that I, only a few years ago, thought I would never be able to master. Piano is my second instrument after voice (Tenor here), but I take it just as serious as voice... maybe even more serious since I'm not in school taking applied lessons and doing this all on my own... although piano and voice are two complety different monsters, they are still both monsters; they just function in their own unique capacities...
...anyway...
I've come across some pieces, even the more recently, that have completely rendered me dumbfounded at times.lol I really have to work at technique, finding technique (becuase i am mostly self-taught), and unlearning all of the bad habits that I picked up only because they worked for me when I really needed results.lol Technique and research have become my best friend for some pieces, but you just don't know what you don't know. Sometimes technique falls in my lap. Other times, technique strikes me like lightning and I feel stupid for not realizing it sooner... sometimes technique just eludes me altogether.lol
The funny thing is that piano is constabtly reinforcing some of the lessons I've come to appreciate as an adult: accept change; don't give up, just keep trying; when a door closes, a window opens; be consistent, etc...
Didn't mean to text-wall you, but it invigorates me to see others succeeding and progressing! I am by no means a virtuoso, but I know that if high school me knew what I would be capable of on keyboard in the future, I might have focused up even more!lol
Keep up the great work! Work hard, but have fun, and enjoy it— it is music!
Most Excellent from this viewer
 So beautiful...i was playing the piano as i was young for about ten years, i hope one day again i will be this great
You are awesome! I have a brand new keyboard I bought for myself in October. I've not touched it! Don't ask me why. It terrifies me. But I want to start learning so badly. 

You sound amazing to my ears.
Thanks for listening!
Thanks!
Thanks!
My pleasure!
Thanks!
I'm too scared to ask, but what is this piece?
I didn’t even have sound on at first but I could instantly tell what the piece was haha. But yeah amazing performance OP, keep at it!!
Thanks!
Thanks! But without piano I would still be a father and a husband. Although piano is a huge part of my life personally and professionally!
Thanks!
Yes those parts are hard not to get scared with jumps. I get what you mean.
Thanks!
Always rooms to make it better!
Thanks!
I'm still plodding through OP. 1. I don't think I'll ever be able to do 3.
Thanks!
Thanks! I hope to make more improvements. It's not finished but I'm ready to take it for a lesson soon haha
"my neighbours and mom suffered during my practices"

bro💀
Ive got a small hand too! Very uncomfortable 9th on both hands.
Being that it's an orchestra piece arranged for piano, it completely depends on the arrangement you played.
Thanks!
Few mistakes. Say I think somewhere around 5 is what I can tell. But that's just notes I consider rushed also a mistake and hesitation as well. 

Your prob right about lf melodic part. I am a little afraid to swallow notes in rh figures as it tends to not make sound here and there.

Thanks for listening!
Best compliment musician can ask for. Beside money ofc 😆. Thanks for listening!
Glad to hear!
Thanks!
Good to hear!
Thanks!
Thanks!
Thanks!
Thanks!
Me too. I only get 2-4h a day to practice 😶
Thanks!
Thanks!
Thanks!
Thanks!
Takes time. Simplifying in your head what you are doing with each hand is a start. I mean mentally.
Thanks! Cruel is a good way to describe it.
Thanks!
Just a bit over 3 weeks
Thanks!
3rd movement of the moonlight sonata by beethoven
T's a dust cover. I am cold
[deleted]
Maybe but that's how I play.
Moonlight sonata 3rd movement
###[View link](https://rapidsave.com/info?url=/r/piano/comments/17qqf24/managed_not_to_stop_a_lot_to_improve_still/)


 --- 
 [**Info**](https://np.reddit.com/user/SaveVideo/comments/jv323v/info/)&#32;|&#32; [**Feedback**](https://np.reddit.com/message/compose/?to=Kryptonh&subject=Feedback for savevideo)&#32;|&#32;[**Donate**](https://ko-fi.com/getvideo) &#32;|&#32; [**DMCA**](https://np.reddit.com/message/compose/?to=Kryptonh&subject=Content removal request for savevideo&message=https://np.reddit.com//r/piano/comments/17qqf24/managed_not_to_stop_a_lot_to_improve_still/) &#32;|&#32; 
 [^(reddit video downloader)](https://rapidsave.com) &#32;|&#32; [^(twitter video downloader)](https://twitsave.com)
It's the 3rd movement of Beethoven's Moonlight Sonata
Totally channeling Beethoven in the passion of your head movements when hitting some of those chords.

Amazing.
Moonlight sonata 3rd movement
Not bro, ma'am.

My mom says that she cannot do anything during my practices.
I think my hands are even smaller than you.
No, I played orchestra 


/s
I was scrolling with the sound off (I’m supposed to be paying attention on a meeting).  I heard the music in my head as soon as I saw the video. Lol.

Nothing against the person who didn’t know (we’re all exposed to different stuff), but I thought it was funny that I recognized the song from the first two seconds of fingerings.
Dont be cheap. Turn the heater up.

Piano strings need constant temp/humidity to keep their tuning.
But the position of your wrist looks painful, do you have a teacher?
It's an icon of piano solo pieces, to be fair (rightly so imo). Almost as easy to spot as la campanella if you've been playing/listening for a while.
Well, La Campanella is 80% just repeated D#’s.
I was exploring Hong Kong and someone jumped from a building and landed next to me. I'm shaken.. Not sure if I should go home or continue my trip..
Just what the title says. I'm currently traveling for a year. I was exploring a residential neighborhood in HK yesterday and heard what sounded like a bomb going off next to me. It was the sound of this person hitting the concrete. 

There was a little boy riding a scooter on the street and the man who jumped, clipped him and knocked him over. The boy was screaming in terror. I didn't know what happened or how the man ended up there. I thought maybe the electric scooter exploded. It took me awhile to realize he came from the balcony above. I went to the man to try and do CPR but quickly realized that he was very much dead.

The police and ambulance came, but nobody could understand me, so I just left. I am pretty shaken up and do not know anyone here. I've messaged people from back home which is a comfort. I spent the day in bed watching movies. I'm feeling quite overwhelmed and not sure what else to do.

Any tips or advice on how to process this situation while in a foreign country with no resources.
I'm so sorry this happened to you. I'd suggest contacting your travel insurance provider to see if they can refer you to a counsellor.

From [this](https://www.scmp.com/news/hong-kong/health-environment/article/3246423/hongkongers-struggling-mental-health-issues-can-call-government-hotline-24-hour-help-thursday) article it looks like you can call 18111 for the HK mental health support hotline. There's a list of resources at [https://www.shallwetalk.hk/en/get-help/emergency-helplines/](https://www.shallwetalk.hk/en/get-help/emergency-helplines/) 

You could also call services in your home country.
I’m really sorry this happened to you. My husband and I witnessed a hiker falling to his death in Switzerland at the beginning of our trip and I felt very traumatized for a long while. My husband tried to assist to no avail as well. We continued, and managed to enjoy the rest of it but there was a cloud over us. I think it helped to talk about it. I also made a post on Reddit and that support was surprisingly helpful. It’s been a year and a half now and I can enjoy the memories of the trip more than I could in the moment as the trauma has faded. 

I think there’s some feelings of guilt over the callousness of enjoying a trip when something so awful happened. And that’s a little difficult to get over. 

Take care of yourself.
Aside from doing what other people have said, play tetris

https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC5678449/
Holy shit! Spend some time relaxing, however that may be. Everyone’s mental capacity for fucked up events is different so I can’t recommend you keep going or head home but I’d personally probably want to continue after spending a few days coming to terms with what had happened. If you are truly shaken by it, definitely head home and spend time with family and friends. That is insane and I hope you’re alright.
I am so sorry! What a horrific thing to experience.

One month into my year long world trip, we too experienced something pretty traumatic. I went through all the stages of grief; shock, guilt, denial, etc. Then anger! Why us?? I kept thinking that our trip was now ruined and we should just bag it.

We got through it.

My advice is to slow down now and don’t make any quick decisions. The next few weeks will suck, no way around it. Talk to family. Talk to a Telehealth counselor (even just 1 session can be super helpful). Take inventory of where you are at mentally after a few weeks and then decide your next move. Just be super kind to yourself in the interim.
OP I'm really sorry to hear this. Hong Kong is a truly special place but has moments (like anywhere) where it can be very bleak for people. I'm so sorry you had to witness something so horrible. Here are two numbers you could consider calling if you need to speak with someone immediately - they should both have English speaking options. 

The Samaritan – 24hr Multi-lingual Suicide Prevention Services： 2896 0000

The Samaritan Befrienders Hong Kong：2389 2222

Please feel free to DM me if you need more support, happy to help find further connections.
I’m really sorry this happened
My family is in a hotel literally less than a ten minute walk from you. Can I buy you lunch tomorrow and give you an ear to listen?
[deleted]
I’m in HK. Can lend a ear, which may help. You can reach out to me. I can also refer you to free counseling services (I work at an NGO here and also know of counseling programs I can refer you to).
OP, I experienced the exact same thing and tried to save his life as well. It was at university and I was a student. If you want to talk please PM me.
I can’t give advice but can share what I would do if I was in your shoes: 

Cry, a lot. Mourn the person as if I had known them. I’m not religious but I would “pray” by wishing their spirit a safe trip to wherever they are going next and wishing his family and loved ones well. 

Once I let all of my sad, anger, shock, etc out without judgement, I would celebrate life. Celebrate the fact I am alive. Go outside and watch people go about their day, alive. Look for little things that show what makes the human experience beautiful, like a couple holding hands, friends laughing, people helping each other. Look at the world around me especially nature and recognize the blessing of being alive. 

This is very personal to me, but I would probably dedicate the rest of my trip to this person. Live for them so to speak. Enjoy as much as I can in honor of their life and death.
I suggest you call police in HK. They have people speaking English. I think you should tell them how you feel. It is good to get closure on site. I am sure they have someone that can help you. I use to live in HK and my interaction with police was very positive.
Sorry to hear that!  Perhaps you can get a telehealth appointment from a counselor in your home country?
Hi there. I’m Australian and I was living in Taiwan when a fellow jumped off my building landing in my courtyard. My ex and I were first on the scene. It was absolutely horrible. I suggest you head to an embassy and ask for assistance or to chat to someone. Pick a friendly country of your country doesn’t have an embassy in HK. Secondly, there will be expat groups on FB if you feel like chatting to someone from home or other westerners. Lastly, just on zoom and call home. Any of these options will help you through. It would be a shame to cut your travelling short I suggest to lean on others for support during this time. All the best, it’s just really unfortunate this happened to you - but you can and will pull through.
My view on this is: what are you doing to do at home? You'll get home then only wish you hadn't gone home. 

This probably sounds callous, but you can use this as a lesson in how to learn to deal with extreme events when you are out of your comfort zone. Sure being at home is a better place to process things, but you won't always have that luxury. Use this.
Hi
Just read your post your post 
Where did this happen 
It has not come on the news, 
I am a counselor ,  I would be happy to talk to you
I’m so sorry you’ve experienced this, especially on vacation 💔. My heart goes out to the child as well.
Happened to me last year at phuket airport. Me and my fiance were shooken up for a few days, just take some time man. And try not to drink about it either...
I’m so sorry this happened to you. I’m also really disturbed and shocked by the amount of people in the comments who’ve witnessed something similar
Listen to 8D (and up)music or download an emdr app.
I had something very similar happen to me, a guy jumped off a roof at a night club and landed right in front of me. I did the same thing, did first aid, to the same end game. I was with him for about an hour until he passed as paramedics tried to save him. 
Not going to lie, I still think about it, and it was over 10 years ago. For me it was a day or 2 later that it hit me the hardest and I kept reliving the sounds.
Try and talk to someone, as other people have said talk to your insurance, or any family or friends. But I hate to say it will be hard, and depending on your personality. 
But it will get better, it might not feel that way. Talk to people, this will be hard, but try and do things, go visit places, meet randoms, I’m sure there will be a random back packers meet up group. Let your brain focus on it as it’s a big thing to process, but try and enjoy some other things too.

If you feel you want to go home, and ur do better there and you truly want to go home for a couple of weeks to be with friends and family that is always okay to. You can come back to your holiday, and exploring the world! It’s a big place, it isn’t going any where soon!
I once witnessed a traumatic accident involving a semi-truck up close. I won’t go into details but it was super intense and graphic, and left me feeling terrified of driving on the freeway ever again. I really felt like I was done with driving forever. But on the other hand I also knew I didn’t want to live my life like that so I chose not to feed the fear and made myself drive the very next day. This may sound dumb but I feel like that decision probably saved me from years of therapy if I let my fear control my life even a little bit. If this were me, I would give myself 1 slow day to process then continue the trip.
You’ve gotten very good advice that I can’t expound on except you should be proud of trying to help and how you handled it ✌️
I’m so sorry that happened to you.

If I were in your shoes, I think I’d be looking to get back home and to your support systems as soon as I could. Maybe have a quick look at your travel insurance policy and see what requirements you might need to meet to get a reimbursement - you may need to get some kind of documentation from a doctor that this incident has impacted your health to a degree where you need to cut your holiday short.
EMDR therapy really helps with trauma. The con is you have to relive the experience a bit playing it back in your mind while you work with the therapist.  The pro is that it gives the memory far less power after only a few sessions
I saw something similar while in Naples in 2016. A guy climbed an Egyptian obelisk in a square. Everyone was laughing at first when he got to the top of the base (maybe 3 meters up). The laughing stopped and went to genuine concern the higher he got up. Dude eventually jumped off. As soon as I saw him falling I got up and walked home. Shit still fucks me up. 

Take at least another day off. Clear your schedule. How much longer are you in HK for? Treat yourself, get some bubble tea, whatever your favorite food is out there.
This also happened to me while in madrid recently. Walked out of my hotel and someone jumped off the roof and hit about 10 feet behind me. The noise was extremely loud.
I had the same thing happening to me when i lived in Macau. I was walking and all of a sudden a sound that sounded like a shooting or even a tire blowing up happened behind me. I lookes behind and for a second i thought it was a dummy doll. I remember thinking "why is that doll there and why didn't i notice when i passed there 5 seconds ago".

My brain took a while to register that it was a person and that it had jumped. Had they jumped 5 seconds earlier it would have fall on me, but maybe they saw me and waited for me to clear their path.

I looked closer but there was nothing to be done. The bones were out, the face had a huge crack and there was blood everywhere. I called 911, waited for the police to arrive. I didn't have to make a statement. And went home.

I guess i am a little more resilient than most, since the episode didn't really affected me. I felt sorry for the person, who must have felt a huge despair to have jumped and i wondered if gambling debts led them to it.
This happened to me in 2012 at Victoria peak. I wa sat having coffee and heard this massive bang and it was this lady who jumped off. No one was phased and her body was covered but there for hours. I feel like it is a regular thing there. Carry on with your trip it’s happened now nothing you can do sadly. Suicide is very sad indeed
This must be so traumatic and I think you really should share it with someone as soon as you can. There would be English speaking doctors in HK, or maybe psychologists. Check with your accommodation or even Google. 

It really does help to talk to someone.
Experiencing this is a critical part of your life’s journey. You have been shown how quickly it all ends, and how easily it becomes unbearable when we lose focus on what matters. We travel to experience new things. God has chosen to show you this outcome, because you are meant to gain wisdom that only experience can teach.

Find what matters to you and focus on it.
The first day of my four week trip in Italy and Romania, I witnessed the body of a suicide. I was with an acquaintance who was giving me a tour of her city. We just got out of the car from driving from her village to the city, Bergamo. Built on a mountain with an old upper and modern lower city. We were in the upper city, on top of the old city walls, with a view on the lower city, and Milan in the distance. I walked up to the wall, she said "look at how high it is!" I look down, and there they are. Someone jumped from the city wall just now. The police were starting to arrive. 

I went through with my trip and don't regret it. I regret not talking about it a little more, not giving myself enough space to be shocked. I don't regret going on, I regret not taking it into account and reacting to it more, not changing how I went on. I have visited her a few times since. She still feels bad and guilty about it years later.

There are many ways of processing, and everyone has different methods. How do you usually process heavy things? What do you need in such moments? Can you find these things while traveling? It's okay to cut your trip short, it's okay to change your trip to give you more space to process, it's okay to go through with your trip as planned. The best option is one where you can find ways to meet your needs. If your needs are social, can you get enough out of the possible contact with your loved ones from there? If you need alone time, can you isolate well enough? If you need distraction, you'll probably find it. If you need comfort, are there ways you can reach it? If you can meet your needs while staying on the trip, I think it'd be valuable to give it a chance. If not, go home to your loved ones and find support. However you choose to continue, try to not ignore what happened.
You are what is called in medicine a secondary victim.  It is traumatizing for health care personnel even more so for non health care.  You should try and find a counselor (maybe on line).  You want someone who specializes in trauma.  My you find peace🥰
Stay doing stuff your a good dude thank you for being you
I’m so sorry. I have been on a structure when a person jumped and it’s something I will never, ever forget. Please get into therapy if it’s available to you. Witnessing this type of event messed me up for a while and I’ve had some residual ptsd responses. Hugs to you. 🤍🤍
I have had a similar experience. I was on a work-related trip and, after I reported it, a counselor called me to follow up. They had previous experience with military PTSD. They told me that your brain is not expecting an experience like that and it is good for healing to allow yourself time to think of it and process. I was told not to repress thoughts and to set aside some time each day to allow myself to think about what I'd witnessed. Luckily, I was headed home just a few days later (I was so relieved to be home) and already had a short vacation planned, which was also recommended by the counselor (oddly a person across the aisle on my vacation flight had a series of "unexpected" seizures so I was feeling a little toxic/cursed for a minute). I thought of that person who died often afterwards and still do, but I am so glad I was given information to begin to process my experience. No shame if you want to go home (or by finding something special/comforting to do if you can't), no shame in feeling upset about it, and it's ok to be sad or cry for people we've never met; definitely take time for yourself when you can to process this experience, whatever form that may be.
A similar thing happened to me, and part of what tore at me was the feeling of impotence. Like I kept running the situation through trying to figure out what I could have done, or if I had just … even something fantastical and even though I knew I couldn’t have done anything. What helped me was ritualizing the death by doing a little ceremony for the person’s soul, like lighting a candle or floating flowers into the sea or going to a temple. Then 1. You’ve taken an action 2. You’re symbolically releasing. When your mind starts circling again, think back to the “resolution.”
Write. Get it all out on paper. It forces you to confront your thoughts and feelings and to organize them, to a point at least.

Write. Then, chin up and carry on.
Clinical psychologist here— this is so traumatic and I’m so sorry this happened. Take time to process, numb out, and heal. Call people from home. Hong Kong has a huge expat community so there surely must be English speaking therapists. You might try calling your country’s embassy for some resources or ideas.
I would make sure you talk to someone about it. I was in the same position as you a few years back, brushed it off and thought ‘I’ll be alright.’

PTSS is real
I’m so sorry. Give yourself a few days to let the thoughts play out.
I am sorry you went through that. Its terrible and awfully traumatic. Please be easy on yourself. If you need a couple of days, take them. If you feel like you want to go home, go home. Travelling doesn't need to be punishment. 

I was on a vacation once where my SO and I watched someone die on our first day of a 10 day long vacation on a small island. Its was awful, I still see the man's smiling face before the accident and I can still see and hear is wife's agonizing wails when he died. 

It was a crazy dynamic because, here we are on this special vacation (it was literally my SO's first day out of the country on his first international trip) and this poor woman and her family were devastated. 

Part of our first trip was to circumvent the island, so the next day we moved to a small town. The man that died was from this small town, everyone was in mourning. But as our trip progressed and we moved further down the island, less and less people heard about the tragedy. 

All that being said, I do recommend moving to a different part/location of travels so that you don't have to go past the memories and trauma during the rest of your trip. Its terrible and there is no right or wrong ways, we are just visitors. I mean that literally, in that we are travelling and visiting someone else's world and metaphorically, as everything is temporary and our lives are just small, temporary blips in time. 

Maybe check out some of the suicide support sub reddits. I watched someone drown and I went to a couple subs that also dealt with unexpected drownings and found solace and relief in those communities.
Witnessing death like that is traumatizing, it happened to me when I had to give CPR to someone's child and she didn't make it. What helped me somewhat was reminding myself that the situation wasn't my fault, and dwelling on what happened won't change anything. Although it still hits me every once in a while and I get really sad. 

Find people to talk to and do some fun activities to help keep your mind off of things <3
I am so sorry this happened to you. I just experienced a severe trauma while traveling in east Asia as well (almost died from shellfish allergy in Tokyo, and actually posted to this sub about it) - take all the time you need to rest, talk a lot with friends from home, watch comfort movies, talk to your therapist, whatever. For me, just being out and experiencing the culture again could be a bit of a trigger after my trauma because the language/culture gap was part of what made the traumatic event so much worse, so I recommend taking it very slow. The isolation of not knowing the language can make the immediate post-trauma all the more disorienting, so if you are able, try to find other English-speaking travelers or expats to connect with. 

A lot of people on this sub will urge you not to let this ruin your trip, press on, etc etc, because this is r/solotravel and you’re more likely to find that vibe here. but I cannot stress this enough: do what is right for you. For me, that meant taking it one day at a time for another week, talking to my therapist a couple times, doing a little touring and a lot of self care, and ultimately cutting my trip short by 10 days. One day at a time, no decisions have to be made immediately. do what you need to do to take care of yourself, as just muscling/powering through it can lead to longer-term [PTSD](https://www.samhsa.gov/mental-health/post-traumatic-stress-disorder). I’ve been back home for 2 weeks and am still having post-trauma symptoms, but am working with my therapist and leaning into healthy coping skills to heal. 

Feel free to DM if you need someone to process with, I really feel for your situation and wish you peace as you heal from this awful event.
I am here for you! This happens all over the world sadly. :/  wrong place at the wrong time for you to have to experience that and I’m sorry. Life is what it is. It can be beautiful and also very sad and mind boggling. Just know you are loved and in our hearts as well as Gods. He has a plan for you. Maybe it’s to take this experience and just spread love to anyone and everyone you meet. This person may have intentionally done this which just says he was sad and couldn’t handle it. You can try to change that outcome for others by showing love and compassion. We never know what anyone is going through at the end of the day.
Oh my gosh I'm so sorry this happened to you. My wife and I witnessed a young boy drown to death in Costa Rica and it really shook me up. But what you went through is extremely traumatizing. I second the person who suggested trying to find a counselor, likely virtually. Keep checking in with loved ones and take care of yourself.
Take some time to get some support from family and friends. Feeling not your usual self and losing sleep is normal after experiencing some trauma. Take the time you need, and you will be the best person to decide if you should go home or not. Don't make any rushed decisions, as you don't want, in the future, this event to be the defining situation from your year away.
I’m so sorry this happened to you. This happened to me in Canada and I am unsure on the status of the person who jumped.
I called my family and friends back home, let myself have a few days and continued my travels.  I couldn’t help that I was there at that time, I couldn’t have done anything differently for that person. 
Look after yourself x
In case knowing more about the man might help you process what happened, its now been reported. What a sad case. Former anti corruption head


https://www.thestandard.com.hk/breaking-news/section/4/212971/Man-who-jumped-to-death-in-North-Point-was-retired-ICAC-operations-head#:~:text=The%2073%2Dyear%2Dold%20man,of%20operations%20of%20the%20ICAC.
Don’t go home. You’re understandably shaken up, but once the shock wears off you’ll start to process the whole thing logically and eventually you’ll move past it. A few years ago I witnessed a man take his own life in exactly the same way as what you just described. It was surreal - not just because I’d watched a man die right in front of me - but also because of the sickening realisation that things like this happen the world over on a daily basis, and yet the earth just keeps on spinning and life goes on regardless. Be patient. Take some time to grieve and process the experience, then continue on your journey. The rest of the world will keep on moving and leave this whole incident behind. There’s no reason why you shouldn’t leave it behind either. 

Good luck.
This happened to me in Beijing. I was just strolling down the sidewalk and glanced to my left at an apartment building and saw a man plummeting toward the ground. He barely missed a girl on a bike. 

Given the trajectory and the place where he landed there was no way he fell. He either jumped or was pushed. I guessed he came from 12 to 14 floors up. 

The crazy thing was he was alive. Both legs were broken and he had a pool of blood under his head but he was alive. I couldn't get through the gate so I ran around to the guard hut and told him what happened. We both ran back around to where the man was lying on the ground. I put my sweater under his head and talked to him a bit, then the paramedics showed up and took over. 

No one seemed interested in talking to me so I just left, This was 16 years ago and I still think about him all the time.
Probably call some family or friends to talk it through.
Hey, I'm sorry this happened to you. I hope you reach out to counselling services either innHK or your home country.  This would be brutal for anyone to go through, please don't suffer alone.
You're a good person, I hope it doesn't impact you much. Please seek a counsellor
Very sorry to hear that happened to you, hope you’ll be alright 👍
I've been travelling/living in asia for 4+ months too, I would just treat this the same as if it happened at home and get whatever professional help you need.  

If you're from north america, the price is going to be cheap in comparison anyways.

If you got insurance, you should be covered.
I would get an online trauma therapist to talk about it.
Good god... I am happy to see the amount of support and response to this. I'm really sorry about this whole situation. How horrible for every person involved. May you be guided well along the healing from this...
Keep exploring-after that almost anything else that happens will be an improvement.
Fuck I hope you get through this tough time just keep pushing through
I am so sorry this happened to you, and am so sorry for that person’s family. Which neighborhood did this happen in?
**I'm really glad that you are ok and weren't harmed by the falling person.**

The situation was beyond anything you could ever control or choose. Nothing could have been done differently. But you did exactly the right thing by trying to help.

As you pointed out, the scooter driver was frozen in fear (hopefully not hurt). Other people probably stood and stared. Some surely walked away, and some probably just ignored it.

**By actually going to help you set yourself apart as a good Samaritan and someone who can rise above the stress and confusion to do the right thing.**

That probably sounds like a very little thing and no consolation, but it's very true.
Send this hurting soul who left your blessings. Let him know that you will keep him in good company and that you commit yourself to living as fully as possible the life he could not. Talk to him about how you feel, it's O.K. to be honest. It's just you and him in this space. Find a way to be tender. Both with him and yourself. You have a powerful heart, let it be source of healing for everyone concerned. Hugs from here.
People jump off buildings in America too. It sucks that you have to see that but you shouldn't let it get too much to you.
Sorry this happened, I never had an experience like this. However if I were to give you any advice on how to overcome this, try having a talk with yourself in the shower. Take as much time as you need in that shower. Really let your thoughts come out and.. try to focus on letting yourself heal. Wishing you the best.
Oh, wow, I'm sorry
That sucks you had to see that.
I would suggest take a few more days and rest in your room, calm down and decide from there onwards.
I am so sorry this happened to you. Be good to yourself. None of this is your fault. Play some Tetris to help your mind. Hugs
Wow I am a gf of my loved one committing suicide it definitely is a horrible experience when u feel hopeless,  I am so proud of you for trying to revive him!   I definitely think you need to  continue your journey and know you did all you can to help him!!  You have had a traumatic experience!!   I had to go home to be with my family when this happened to me but after all it’s your heart that needs to heal you went to go on vacation so I think maybe stay and maybe do something else that requires you letting go of that situation..  Pick a spot to leave it and know that you were just for some reason that person to witness such a tragedy!!  Praying you can continue to a beautiful ending of a trip..  it’s the person that did it not the place you are visiting 🙏🏼💯
I had some counseling training in Hong Kong a few years ago. I learned that jumping off balconies is the most common form of suicide in Hong Kong. Easy to understand given the many high rise buildings. And, in fact, many people in Hong Kong are traumatized by witnessing it and struggle with PTSD symptoms. 

Other readers have provided you some great local and international resources. Talk it out, don’t keep it in. You did the best you could under the circumstances. I would encourage you to stay on your trip, but if it is too much, it is okay to go home too. No wrong decisions, no judgements.
Tetris, bilateral movement like walking especially in nature, and polyvagal/autonomic nervous system regulation exercises that are on YouTube that use eye movement. The last and first suggestion are the most studied and useful acutely rather than over time.
Oh no…sorry that happened to you 🥲
reading these comments, i didn’t realize how common this was
If you don’t have a therapist at home, think about setting one up. This is a traumatic event for anyone to witness. This kind of trauma can stay in your mind and body. It would be good to have someone to process and talk through it with in a professional setting at home.
I am so incredibly sorry this happened to you & the man. I have no words but would totally hug you and hold you if I were near you. Hope you find peace 🤍
Pray for him and his family and take this as god showing you more than you came for
I experienced significant traumas while traveling that shook me to the core and changed most of my beliefs about people. I fully regret that I didn't run home into the arms of people that love me, so they could remind me of who I am, that there are places in the world where I feel safe,  protected and loved. 

But I didn't do that. I stuck I adjusted my plan and kept traveling. 3 years later, I'm still trying to unravel the damage that was done. Not that going home would have waved a magic wand. But it would have given me support that I really needed.

If you go home and start feeling better, you can always book a flight and pick up the trail right where you left off. (Assuming resources allow).

💚 May you find peace 💚
💚 May the departed soul find peace 💚
💚 May we all find peace 💚
Yikes. Any of your feelings are valid. 

Continuing your trip is okay. Going home is also okay. 

Make sure you get any help you need to speak to anyone you need to. 

Anything that comes to your mind is a normal reaction to this, don’t get too disturbed by your thoughts. 

Stay safe. Stay healthy.
Can you get online therapy from your country of origin?  My parents are of Hong Kong-ese desent. Unfortunately jumping from the window is the main way people kill themselves there due to the abundance of high rise buildings. In fact,  in Cantonese,  when people say they are going to kill themselves,  usually oftentimes say "tiu lau" which literally means jump off a building.  It's super common over there.  I can name at least a few extended family who have done it. Mental health isn't really emphasized in HK the way it is in the west.
You're already doing a great job
Tetris, quickly:-)
You almost got landed on, I would live life to your fullest from this point on...Don't think of this as a negative,  think as a very positive....
Contact your embassy in Hong Kong. There are officers on call 24/7. They can help you.
Find sone expats. Look on fb groups for ‘expats in …….’ Whenever you are. Join the group. Then ask if someone could meet you for coffee and that. You need support.
Just talk about it with some friends/ family and read the replies here. I had a similar but not so close encounter when I was the first to see a body after a "jumping onto the train tracks suicide". A very grim feeling that only goes away in a couple of days and after discussing with others. Take care.
So sorry this happened to you!  I would look into neuro emotional technique when you are able to help process the emotions and trauma.  You can also take a bath in “vervita” essential oils to help you process the emotions you are feeling.  Go easy on yourself these next several days.  Sending you love 💕
hello hello hello hello hello you soon-to-be levelled up in life stages human:) I have read all these peoples responses/thoughts/ideas and whilst I think they’re all good in their own ways… I think they are all (and perhaps you) missing what I feel is the main point here, which is this: you have seen something which has changed your life forever, and a painful and traumatic thing at that, but it was no mistake that you have witnessed this. do not be afraid of the feelings you are having but instead acknowledge and embrace them and allow them to wash over and within you as you continue on your process of transformation and evolution into the next stage of your life. Whatever this has made you feel, and whatever it has made you think about life, is exactly where you are currently supposed to be.
only you can decide whether you should go home or continue your trip - if you feel you should go home, then go home. if you feel you should continue your trip, then continue your trip. if you are in two minds and can’t decide, sit with it for more time until you feel that one way is more right for you than the other. 
but the most important thing is not to ruminate and ask yourself ‘why did this happen to me’, but rather acknowledge that it did happen and embrace how it is making you feel with truth and maybe ask ‘what new positive way can I look at the world after having had this (quite rare) experience?’

“The mystery of life is not a problem to be solved, but a reality to experience; a process that cannot be understood by stopping it. We must move with the flow of the process, we must join it, we must flow with it” - Dune
I'm sorry to hear that. 

Statistically the chance of it happening again to you is low. I don't think you should waste your effort.
Hectic, may his soul rest... Hope you feeling better and recover soon... Great to chat here... Or chat to someone there ... Continue your tour... Life is short ...
I am so sorry! I hope you are able to connect with the person who is in HK. When I was in college, I witness a girl contemplate jumping from a parking garage and the whole experience itself was very traumatic. I would say the best thing that I did to move on was talk about it and try to process the grief. It’s hard, truly, but seeking help is probably your best option. Again, truly sorry.
I assume you have friends and family you can talk to. They are there wherever you are.  So continue.
Take a taxi to the HK Cricket Cub. Get out at the entrance.  Look across the road for a path that runs to the right of the concrete structure. That path will take you on one of the most beautiful walks in Hong Kong overlooking many beaches. At some point you will head down to Repulse Bay. You will come out the other end cured.
Many counselors are now doing online appointments. As a Medic, I would talk to someone about that one. We have bad gallows humor so I would do things like listen to “It’s Raining Men” because for EMS providers it’s laugh or cry and we can’t choose cry. You are in a totally different position. First, know whatever it takes to process it (avoid drugs and alcohol like the plague especially for the first few weeks) is okay. 

I highly highly recommend talking to someone trained in processing trauma online till you decide what route to take. There’s benefits to continuing your trip and going home. Continuing could trigger your subconscious to be okay with it via if we’re continuing on. I’m okay. However, a good support system is also important and if you feel by phone and internet isn’t enough I would head home. Weight blankets are a great resource, funny movies, cry as much as you need to. When you choose to work on processing by going over what happened get comfortable. Comfortable clothes, blanket, bed, couch whatever that means and then talk it out with someone through every emotion and sense. What did you see, smell, hear, feel, etc? Because if you hit a trigger for the memory later this will help you identify it quickly and desensitize yourself to it by slow progressive exposure.

Make sure you eat healthy, even if you don’t feel like it and get adequate sleep if you have to squeeze a pillow to your chest or use familiar comforting scents near the nose to do so. I use lavender or spray my pillow with comforting body scents. Whatever you do don’t bury it. Deal with it now. And I am super proud of you for trying to help that person. That is an action not many take. You did good by trying.
That is horrible . How are you doing now? It’s been about a month since it happened? Did you go home?
This is clearly horrific. You’re in severe trauma. Can you access local mental health services and get some temporary meds, and someone to talk to? 

If not, go home.
Call a phone support line on YOUR country … there are numerous support derived w trained people in various developed countries. Then … find somewhere to go to chill … a nice friendly backpackers or island holiday … if you still not good go home for a couple of months
Find the peaceful and beautiful Catholic church of the Immaculate Conception there in Hong Kong and escape the hustle and bustle of the city to clear your mind in that sanctuary?
You witnessed this to shake you up. You witnessed this to grow. Take it easy on itself, you’re only human. How could you of known? Death is all around us but so is life. What a thing to see. Give yourself a big hug and take the time you need. You have a year after all. You don’t need to rush. Maybe an online therapist could be nice. How honorable of you to attempt CPR, especially in that condition. Would you of saved him if you could of? yeah. Did you have any control over the situation? No. Anywhere you are you will have to cope. I am sorry. I believe in you.
You type English. I’m sure they could understand you if you used English? Maybe not the police but the ambulance ppl or the passers-by
I'm so sorry, neighbor. There's a guide that you might find helpful that I linked to in [this comment](https://www.reddit.com/r/london/s/D3ZEm1CX4y).

I hope it helps.
I have witnessed this in Canada so it can happen anywhere. You will get over it.
Hi, have you thought about getting cognitive behavioural therapy while you are out there? Lots of therapists are able to give therapy via zoom link or teams. 

It would help you process the trauma, expose yourself to the experience and stop the symptoms from festering as time passes so it is not dictating your as time moves forward.
I am sorry to hear that..But I saw so many 💩 on my travels.Tbh a suicide wouldn't shock me anymore.I would continue my trip if I were you,like nothing happened...(the only thing that still bothers me to this day are starving children,and the ideea that I can't help all of them)
You should continue your trip. You were able to post this here. To me that says you are coping okay. If you needed to go home, you would have posted about how and why you ended the trip you so carefully planned.
Take mdma
[deleted]
What were your resources before the jumper?
That’s terrible. I personally would hop on the next plane home to be with my family. The trip will likely be tainted by this anyway so it makes little sense to stay in the city and play Tetris to calm yourself. Go home and be with loved ones
Go online and blog about it.
What a tragedy,  just realize that for reasons  unknown  the man jumped,  the only one you can control is yourself.
Omgggggggggggggggggggggggggggg Jesus
Swear to God some invisible person sized thing jumped from our neighbors roof to ours yesterday. There was about 5 people in the garage to witness the sound and shadow but, nothing up there when I jumped up to look
[removed]
Qn: if the victim originated from a fall from height, should one attempt CPR on him? Will the chest compression cause even more damage?
Pray my friend! Then go to a different town and try to enjoy yourself. Do something that will keep your mind busy!
That sucks that that asshole didn't care about anybody else down below, fuck him.
You might want to come back to the USA the chances of dying in a shooting are really @ not that bad “🤥🤥🤥
Was Putin in the vicinity?
[removed]
Were you at NIKE
Ffs Jackie Chan not again!!
Committing suicide this was is the most selfish thing you can do. Atleast do it somewhere no one has to be traumatized by it.


OP, get well soon. Hope that the advise from the people below will help you.
You've got a pretty cool story to tell for when you go out to a bar later.
This has nothing to do with travel
what movies did you watch?
[deleted]
If that happened to me, I would leave.  That is a sign.  I don’t care whomever is not superstitious or whatever thinks.  Go somewhere else and enjoy your time.  That is traumatizing, go back to China another time.
[removed]
Continue the trip for sure & hope you're okay xx
I would continue the trip.  You will have images of this in your mind for a while but time heals.
If you can talk with someone locally, I’m sure Hong Kong must have some resources, or even just talk with friends or family back home, then that would be a good start. Just don’t keep it inside alone if you have difficulty. But I wouldn’t cancel your year long trip because of this.
I am sorry to hear that happened, it must be difficult for you to go over this. Please find a couseller immediately (in or outside HK) to talk about this. A professional could definitely help you on it.
Everything will be fine and I hope you get better soon. 💪
So sorry this happened to you 😢 😞
I think you should go somewhere else. In another country to discover another environment, a new place, new experiences (maybe). If you still think too much about what happened, maybe in that case yes, you will need to go back home and work on the effect of what happened, had on you.
I am so sorry this happened to you. My husband and I are expats from Australia living on Hong Kong Island. Might help to be around friendly people so DM me if you want to meet up/ just want to chat to someone. We're free pretty much any time as we have flexible work schedules. Please don't hesitate to get in touch.
That's horrible. If the falling man really did clip a child at those speeds and knocked them over, they likely were seriously injured.
you need to call a friend or family member, let it all out
Sorry, it’s terrible what happened. You are strong and you need to talk to a counselor asap for your brain to process it and let go of it. It might take time but you will be fine eventually. Can you go to a doctor there and ask for English speaking counseling. You can also try to find out online counseling.
Wow.  That is traumatic.  Look for ways to deal with PTSD as mentioned by others.  Best of luck!  The stress will probably still be there if you go home so try to deal with it there to get ahead of it.
I know a therapist in HK who focuses on trauma.  Is from America as well which maybe you are so this can help.  DM and I can connect you.   It’s better to act quickly w these things.  

Also I would  suggest going to the gym or doing cardio or something physical (but be safe).   
Continue!
I’m sorry for the unimaginable experience. Horrendous for you and even worse for the man. If you can, stay on your trip and seek ways to overcome this. It’s something that you can’t unsee no matter where you go and going home could actually make you feel worse because everyone will be carrying on as normal. It might make it weirder. If you can be gentle with yourself and seek the good in the place, maybe even see someone from your home country. Try to realise that this is life, even if it’s hard and shocking. Maybe sure you involve yourself in other things. Don’t feel guilty if you are having a good time. This is life, both things exist and it’s normal. But if you can’t shake the thoughts and it’s been 2 weeks, best to go home maybe.
That’s horrifying I’m so so so sorry this happened to you  I would say enjoy the trip as best you can but if too overwhelmed your mind won’t process the trip in the way your hoping for because it’s flooded with anxiety it might be best to go home, heal, recooperate then plan another trip so you can really enjoy
Oh man, that is awful. And that poor kid- Take care of yourself.
To any women who have read this please use your own discretion but nowadays I wouldn't hitchhike across the street!
Go get help now! Talk to the consulate and relate what you have been through. You have been through a traumatic experience and be kind to your emotional and mental health. IDK if you need to return for a bit, perhaps there are trauma counselors who can help online or ???

What I do know is your experience is important and getting help sooner rather than later will help you process it in the healthiest way possible.

Good luck my friend.
I’m so sorry you had to experience this. I really am. Maybe try reading a positive or hopeful book of enlightenment, Video games like in impulse or solitaire or a Tetris like game, Marijuana or cbd in a form that works for you, Paint or draw all of your emotions, Create something, Create something and burn it or tear it, scream or howl at the moon. If I think of more suggestions I’ll edit. But this is what I do when stressed, depressed, or feeling out of sorts. It really helps. I’m truly sorry you had to endure this traumatic experience.
I read a study that said that playing Tetris in the days after a traumatic event will reduce the PTSD that may form and be experienced in the future/distant future.

Try it. Play a lot of Tetris.

Sorry this craziness happened to you, and hope you recover.
Call American embassy
Take the time to deal with it now. Idk if that necessarily means going home but do seek out a therapist. I witnessed a similar incident 20 years ago and my hands still go numb when I see other people getting too close to the edge of high places. I wish I had realized at the time that there are healthy ways to work through it with a professional and that even though I didn’t know the victim, the trauma was still valid.
I have no advice. I'm truly sorry this happened to you. We are all on borrowed time. I wish you peace and time to be your friend.
Why would you go home?
Whoa I’m sorry you had to experience such a traumatic event… it may seem cold but you have to let it go and move on for your own health.
Probably a suicide from the Evergrande liquidation.
Play Tetris now!!!!! It’s known to reduce risk of PTSD if you play the game within 24 hours
Please go home and also get a trauma therapist. The shakiness doesn't have to last, it can be worked through.
I'm so sorry, this must have been incredibly upsetting. The poor child, too.
 
Look after yourself.
You can continue your trip. You’re going to think about it wherever you are. Say a prayer for him and send it out to the universe.
I'm so sorry this happened to you. Ignore all of these asshats with no empathy. It looks like people have given good advice already, but I hope you're able to cope with it and reach out to those resources as needed.
Had this when I was a kid in France.

Dude fall down (or suicide I don't know) from 12 stairs balcony.

I heard him screaming while he was in the airs and saw his body on the ground. 

We was a bunch of kids and parents playing at early night around 8pm during summer's.

Never felt too stressed about this since I didn't now him personally.

In a few days you will probably feel much better.
Wonder if the guy was impacted by this: https://www.cnbc.com/2024/01/29/evergrande-shares-halted-after-hong-kong-court-orders-liquidation-.html
Play Tetris for a few hours so you don't get PTSD. Seriously.
There is no doubt that it is a very horrific, disturbing and traumatic experience. Only time will help you get better from this event. Try to relax and distract yourself with some rewarding experiences like going to an spa for a massage of some kind.
Avoid that area for a while and probably a new destination would help as well.

Also, set up an appointment with an therapist.
WOW
Additionally to what has already been mentioned I would recommend to contact family members and asks them to recommend you a local psychologist. Maybe they can provide you with online counseling in your mother language. 
I think an important element is to talk it out. Call family or people close to you and share your feelings with them. 
Finally depending on how long you will stay in Hong Kong, try to occupy yourself with other activities (sport, read,…) while you wait to go back. I know it sounds tough and superficial, but sometimes for these sort of heart shaking issues where little help is available, I have made the experience it helps to just try to bury the feelings for a bit until you are in a safe space and you can then let go and get proper attention ! Hang in there ! You did everything you could to help. Don’t feel guilty for it
i’m currently in hong kong, if you’d like someone to just grab a coffee with and distract yourself from this situation message me
跳楼
enjoy your trip - experience what they could not, live for what was lost to them. Onwards.
The shining part 2
Walk away slowly.
Dang, is this a common occurrence over there?
Go to the bar, drink a few beers, have a long sleep - this always helps me to restart my brain
consider it a wake up and be glad you're alive. nothing to cancel your trip over.
Hope you’re okay! Defo keep exploring Hong Kong if you can! I’m in Hk as well, exploring too if you’re keen to meet up!
Damn
Keep exploring
Maybe try calling the US Embassy or Consulate and they will be able to refer you to some resources ?
Such a traumatic event whether you are traveling or not
Also play Tetris! They say playing Tetris helps reduce PTSD from a traumatic event 

https://www.healio.com/news/psychiatry/20230613/playing-tetris-may-prevent-ptsd-after-traumatic-event
Continue, but don’t walk so close to buildings
Average Hong Kong vacation tbh
Thank god you didn't take pictures
Ll
Wonder how OP is now?  Hopefully, managing.
absolutely continue!
Shake it off. Continue with your trip.
Additional numbers for mental health crisis in Hong Kong 

https://www.chp.gov.hk/en/features/48085.html
That's crazy. How did he fall?

I'm sorry you had to deal with that.

I just read a newspaper article about the guy yesterday. They said he fell :(
>I think there’s some feelings of guilt over the callousness of enjoying a trip when something so awful happened.

Yes. Wow. So well put. We saw someone die on the first day of a vacation. a local guide, accidently killed by his foreign tourist. it was so weird to go onto enjoy the rest of the vacation and a weird feeling like, wow, we as tourists could destroy an entire family if we don't listen to our guides.
THIS. Playing Tetris or other pattern games will greatly reduce the chance of PTSD.  I'm so sorry this happened to you. 💔
Playing Tetris and rhythm games helped me a great deal. I did it in the early stages whenever I got a flashback, and it helped immensely in the long run.
I didn’t know this. TIL. I will say, not PTSD but when I go through some of my lower depression days, I actually have about 4-5 games on my phone that I alternate playing for hours. It helped the self talk and my brain going overload for thinking. This makes so much sense. Thanks for sharing.
I'm a fan of this knot-untying game: https://knots.netlify.app/


The time element of Tetris kind of stresses me out...
That piece of advice sounded so random at first but now I'm fascinated!
This is absolutely fascinating.
I don't know if a game about things falling down would help in this case specifically
How much should you Tetris should you administer
Wow this is interesting.
Shameless game plugging to a new low.
Gosh, wish I knew this 18 months ago! Thanks for the info.
Wow, same thing happened to my partner and I.

We just started on an 18 month world trip back in 2016 when the brussels airport had an Isis attack. There were 2 bombs and the first one went off where we were sleeping a couple hours prior (we got delayed overnight at the airport and were waiting for a morning flight). Luckily my body was sore from laying against a pillar and ended up finding a bench to move to, it ended up saving our lives. The bomb went off just one check in aisle away from us.

I experienced a lot of survivors guilt. I saw the entire ceiling fall, so many families and bodies, it was horrifying. The people of Belgium really stepped up and opened up their arms and homes. I hold so much gratitude and deep love for them. This was only a month into our trip, we ended up having an incredible experience after, but the experience is something I am working through still today.

I think what helped me work through a lot of it was honestly just being able to talk about it. I held it in for a few years because I didnt want to make people uncomfortable. Talking helped me process it outside of my own body and head.
Not related to the original post, but how did you manage to do a year long world trip?
Thank you!
This is a good suggestion.  There are so many online therapists.  Betterhelp is one that always advertises.  you can search on psychology today.com for therapists that can do web therapy and take your insurance and any other preferences  you have about who you talk to/their background.
Thank you for the message I would Love to have access or a referral to counseling services here. Pm'ing you now.
Surprised more people did not say this in addition to counseling. Choose some way to honor the person, light a candle for them at a spiritual center/place of worship, dedicate a meal or an adventure to them, do something in their memory, and continue on your journey where they are not able to. Surely there may be some culturally appropriate tradition or respectful way to honor those who have passed in HK that could help you mourn the person’s passing.
Seconding this. OP is pretty fortunate to be in a very developed country with plenty of people from all over, a pretty widespread uptake in English and other languages, and reasonable supports from police and the like. Hope they can avail themselves of that and even try to make some friends with fellow travellers and reach out.
I don’t think calling the police is a good option here, especially Hong Kong police. These are the same people who bashed and even disappeared many innocent peaceful protestors. They are not to be trusted and they do not serve the public.
I wanna visit there some day
Agreed. I'm sorry that happened to you. But Quickly process you had nothing to do with them jumping, be thrilled they weren't aiming for you directly, be happy you had nothing to do with them jumping, be happy you didn't know them.

 Don't let their depression win by giving you depression. Go celebrate life that you survived! Everyday something can kill you, you literally dodged one. 

*I survived an office shooting, living is the best way. Tell everybody you know the story, it's therapeutic.
Agree. It won’t be easy but you will learn that you can do hard things.
North point.. https://maps.app.goo.gl/zFFs9G4z5pjjy5qV9
In majority of places in the world suicides are not reported in the media. Too many of them unfortunately and not really " news".
That would be great!
Aw man I was just there recently. Hope it wasn’t anything too traumatic ❤️
Not OP but thank you for this suggestion. My therapist and I are starting to work through my trauma and I’m banking these tools. I had never heard of 8D audio and while I love EMDR, I didn’t know there was an app. Thank you.
YES!!! I’ve been on/off doing it for years for multiple traumas (mostly death related) and it helped so much. Def look for a counselor who’s trained/equipped for trauma & EMDR specifically. It works wonders for all types. So sorry you went through this… 💔
Unexpectedly loud!
Hard to feel sorry and not angry at these people, barely scrolled through and already multiple stories including the OP, where someone else, including a small child was killed by them.
Thank you for sharing this. It helps me to know more about him. Another article shows a picture of him looking handsome and happy. It's nicer to remember him this way! Thank you again.
https://www.dimsumdaily.hk/former-icac-director-identified-as-elderly-man-who-jumps-to-his-death-at-city-garden-in-north-point/
I hope he lived.
Thank you...North Point
[deleted]
Great advice, thank you!
I stayed in Hong Kong. I got a few Zoom therapy sessions back home in Canada. I started playing Tetris as instructed. I made some friends in HK and have been staying physically active. 

I'm all good now, for the most part.( Although I can't walk down the street without looking up to check that there isn't anything falling from the sky! ). Still a bit jumpy, but not as intense as before. 

 Thanks so much to everybody who replied to me. I really appreciate all the support. The comments really helped! I'm glad I didn't go home.
Why this downvoted
[deleted]
There is no point doing CPR when someone is clearly dead
That sounds disrespectful
[deleted]
This is a really insensitive comment and also not true at all...records from, for example, US wars in the 1800s describe soldiers who witnessed death and destruction having symptoms that exactly match what we now call PTSD, and as long as literature has been a thing, it's described people being horrified by witnessing the deaths of innocents (Shakespeare plays mention people experiencing PTSD-like symptoms after trauma). Ancient Roman and Greek texts describe instances of people experiencing what we now call PTSD.

Just because people witness horrors worldwide doesn't mean they're unphased by them.
I see what you're saying. I think balance is essential..I'm not going home.
I don't know what you mean
Timing wise it's gotta be evergrande related

Terrible OP, sorry you had to see that
tease drab recognise follow clumsy pen pot rustic price muddle

 *This post was mass deleted and anonymized with [Redact](https://redact.dev)*
Chat GPT doesn't know what compassion is.
You sound like an awful human
I stayed long enough to make sure the boy was ok. He seemed physically fine.. Perhaps shock, I am not sure. I wish I could follow up somewhere to find out.
I would consider reaching out to my embassy.(although I'm not American).
I'm Canadian. But I think I've found a counseling resource! Thx for the message.
100% ...I'm looking up wherever I go now.
Thank you. The guy just slipped. The trail is kind of known for it.
My husband says lots of people lost tons of money in Hong Kong and were wiped out financially. 

RIP random guy.
if I may ask: what happened? sounds awful…
How did the local guide die by a tourist?
What happened? That sounds really bad
Are you sure it was an accident? Experience tells me that accidentally killing someone is fairly uncommon.
hmm, thats fascinating.  learn something new every day
does it only work for right after the traumatic event happens?
Does playing a game of things falling still reduce the chance of PTSD when you have PTSD from something falling?
[removed]
Really?
A bit too late though.
Wouldn't the imagery of falling blocks be counterproductive in OP's situation?
*can,* not will. 

It doesn't work for a lot of us. Some people it works great for, though, so try it and figure out which bucket you're in. 

Some people,  freediving and breath hold practice works really well. It's about being in the moment.
Dance dance revolution?
I find playing any sort of computer game is soothing after any traumatic experience. It’s good to pass the time instead of spend that time thinking about what happened.
What games are those?
Link doesn’t work right
I’m not sure that referencing a game that came out in 1985 counts as “plugging”
Ah yes the upstart Tetris. Definitely needs some guerilla marketing in r/solotravel for that game to get any traction
It’s not Tetris specifically per say, but more pattern recognition games.
Damn I remember that. I was on vacation at Siesta Key FL when that happened and I felt such guilt just sitting there like a dumbass on a beach. I didn't know what to do with myself and I felt so helpless. I remember I was looking at beach bags made of coconut shells or something really stupid and useless, but it involved coconuts. I just walked out of the beachfront store and stared at the water wondering wtf to do because everyone was just going about their business. It made me realize how fucked up our world is for some reason. This, from the land of school shootings and what not. It just really fucked with my head for some reason and I had sort of an existential crisis. I can't even imagine what you felt like.
I did an 18 month world trip! I worked 3 jobs to save up money working insane hours (full time and 2 part times with one being an overnight shift a few days a week). It was stressful but I had an end date and gave myself a year to save money.

I left for my trip when I was 22, worked in hostels and other gigs via workaway to save money on accommodation. I also did a working holiday in australia for 7 months to save up more money half way. A lot of things I enjoy doing are fairly cheap or free - coffee shops, open mics, free galleries, nature hikes, etc. I always found super cheap flights too so once accommodation was taken care of with a work trade, I mostly just needed to spend money on food.

Im 30 now and no longer enjoy ‘roughing it’, but Im glad I had that experience young because it really was life changing. I still prioritize travel, work remote, and travel 6-8 weeks every year in a slower way.
Also, Understand the man that jumped almost killed you. He didn't care who was under him and you almost died. It's a hard truth that you cannot turn away from. I think acknowledging this might help you move forward.
Yes! Exactly 🫶🏽
Compared to trigger happy racist American police they’re like teddy bears. Not a single protestor was killed by HK police after years of protesting, whereas protestors killed some police officers and even civilian bystanders https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Death_of_Luo_Changqing
Why would you want to visit Hong Kong? Have you thought about the ethics of your visit to Hong Kong given what happened in the protests? Thousands of hong kongers have been forced to flee, I don’t think it’s kind to support that economy.
Shit, I used to work right by there.
Reporting suicides is known to increase suicide rates, it’s often intentional that they are not reported. 
They also cause social contagion so I'm glad they mostly don't get reported, or at least in Australia they are mostly very discreet.
Not so in Hong Kong , news papers will readily report cases of suicide
On Spotify 9d - as it was. My brain is like 🤯
It goes up in numbers. Ithink up to 12d. 


The emdr app is great. It has guided and unguided. Music etc. I like the guided.

Other techniques are scrunching your toes. Kinda like trying to pick up some sand at the beach. I use that when I have anxiety or need to ground myself. 

If you want some other techniques let me know.

I wish you the courage to heal in the best way possible❤️‍🩹💝
This isn't a safe place to share my unhealed trauma.
[deleted]
[deleted]
Feel free to report any troll comments like the one you were replying to, they'll be deleted
Hang in  there what you went through was a big deal and don’t let anyone make you feel otherwise
That’s awful, I’m sorry you had witnessed this and the poor man himself, What hiking trail is this?
What did they lose money on? Stocks? Real estate? What…
It was a drowning. Tourist went out to an area that explicitly prohibited got sucked out to sea, guide went out to save him. There was few moments when they were out of sight from the rest of us. Tourist was eventually rescued by another swimmer and the guide's body was pulled out of the ocean. 

Nobody knows exactly what happened but there were rumors that the tourist panicked and swamped the guide when the guide reached him.
What did you learn yesterday?
My understanding is as soon as possible is best. After experiencing trauma your brain really wants to solve the puzzle of how to avoid it again. Unfortunately the nature of the universe is that this is frequently an unsolvable puzzle, so your brain spends its wheels and ends up strengthening the neutral pathways of the memory to a degree that causes problems. By giving your brain a puzzle to solve the need to solve something is taken care of and the memory doesn't get written so indelibly.

I would suggest that if you're experiencing symptoms of PTSD playing a puzzle game could help give your brain something to solve while it's spinning the wheels, even if it was years after the incident. Very little downside to trying, either way. 

I'm not a brain scientist, that's just my layman's understanding
Damm good question! Maybe tetris isn't the one for this particular scenario but there are others. A crossword or something?
That’s what made me think it was a joke at first
I wonder if 2048 would work in that case
That's a very good point! I would venture to guess that it could be a bad idea.
Is there a version of this I can buy to play without internet connection? Thanks
I'd recommend TETRIO
Thank you
Thanks
So slow
yep

https://www.ox.ac.uk/news/2017-03-28-tetris-used-prevent-post-traumatic-stress-symptoms
No, its a bad newspaper science level reading of several trials that showed little effect. But it took off and now every post with a traumatic experience in it gets 20 replies reccing it.
I don't think so, but if it is, any graphic puzzles solving game will achieve the same thing. You need a visual puzzle for your brain to work on so it won't keep trying to solve the puzzle of how to avoid the traumatic experience. 😊👍
You're absolutely right in your intent, although the word 'chance' in that sentence is doing the same work. For people in a similar situation as you, how does breath hold practice work?
>suppressing the emotion instead of processing it


Really a great idea guys
Doesn't it? It seems to be working okay for me. Are you able to see a rainbow play button? If so, once you click that it takes you to the puzzle menu.
lol, I was trolling the author.
Totally agree with this. Everyone of us is different and will respond to stuff in different ways. But part of how you cope is the narrative you choose to adopt for what happened. OP had a close shave and survived to tell the tale. It would be a shame if this was the end of the trip.
There have been so many cases of police murder and police brutality in Hong Kong the past few years. I’m sure there are many posts in the Hong Kong subreddit for you to check it out.
Found the shill for a red HK.
Millions of others still live there and very much need tourist dollars to feed their families. Tourism to HK is a good thing for local people.
Lordy that’s an ignorant thing to say
I don't even watch or participate in politics how In the world would I personally know that
oh fuck, me too
I just said something similar.  I also experienced this when I was having a really hard time and a public figure about my age that I grew up with suicided... it was very triggering for me 😔
It is reported here (in Chinese) - https://www.hk01.com/%E7%AA%81%E7%99%BC/985495/
For the local news they will report like on HK01 but not for mainstream local news (like TVB/scmp) they don't report so much anymore unless it really impacts like someone jumped on MTR (cus of fear of copycats.)
These are great! Yes, I’ll take any you have. Thank you!! My therapist and I are trying to identify things I do to comfort myself before we really dig into the deep stuff. And I’ve realized that I don’t comfort myself much and I don’t have many tools to do so.
[deleted]
Can you just stop talking
It was the trail in the Appenzell region from the famous Ascher cliffside restaurant to the Seealpsee lake. There were some stories about it in the news media. When I phoned emergency services, they were surprised because there was another fatal fall just an hour previously.

Some further stats and info.

https://www.swissinfo.ch/eng/business/mountain-accidents-in-switzerland--the-figures/47805430
Considering they announced the liquidation of Evergrande yesterday, it could unfortunately be related to that. Maybe this person had invested with them, or was otherwise dependent upon the company financially.
Curious about this too.
That sucks. Saving someone from open sea drowning is no joke. Accidentally killing is a good description in this case

RIP local guide.
😆 I learned that Daegu Chicken has insanely good service for being in the Philippines, the wait staff paid attention to me and came over a few times to check on me.  Most places it takes them 26 minutes to bring my drink !
I am also not a brain scientist but I have C-PTSD and have had lots of therapy, and this makes sense!!! I'll piggyback off of this...

After a traumatic event in 2022 my (incredible) therapist told me that it's not necessarily the event alone that determines the severity of PTSD, but the phase right after it happens. For example, if you have no support or crappy support, and navigate the experience with no tools or distractions, and keep reliving the memory, you will have a rougher go with PTSD. Same goes if people invalidate your experience, or if you're exposed to anything but a safe, supportive environment. 

Op, it sounds like you're doing the right things by reaching out for support and taking care of yourself with rest and movies. I definitely think the puzzle thing is 100% worth doing to weaken those trauma pathways! I'm so terribly sorry this happened to you and am sending all the love and support your way <3
Wish someone would have told me this after my traumatic brain injury (that’s the nice way to explain the insane trauma I went through 3 years ago).
Interesting.......
So what you’re saying is that my mom further traumatized me by not allowing me any form of video games or puzzles or anything to play with after abusivdky screaming at me, and that’s why my brain has such a hard time not assuming people will act as she did…
There's official Tetris app on Android's Play Store
As the other guy said there's an app but there's way more adverts and you don't get the original game experience. I ended up deleting it when I found this link.
You can swipe down to make it go faster. It's what the original game was like.
Amazing, thanks for sharing
Scientific literacy on Reddit is generally poor. People put too much stock in single studies.
Do you have evidence to support this position? Not dragging you, actually interested
This video brings me peace (if you have thalassaphobia, don't watch it). One Breath Around the World, with Guillaume Nery, filmed by his wife, also on Breath hold. 

For square breathing,  inhale for 5 seconds,  hold for 5 seconds,  exhale for 5 seconds,  hold for 5 seconds.  Inhale 5, hold 5, exhale 5, hold 5. Inhale, hold, exhale,  hold. Keep going as long as you'd like. Perhaps increase to 7 seconds,  or 10. 

If you freedive, and you hold your breath when you're under,  and it's so beautiful and freeing,  once you hold it, everything relaxes.  Freediving is all about relaxation so that you don't need to expend as much oxygen.  

Here's the video. Turn up the music.  Or you can Google it. 

https://youtu.be/OnvQggy3Ezw?si=8P2RQd86UggOPK2b
It’s not really suppressing it, it’s giving yourself more time to process it rather than having to deal with it straight away. 

I find that to trick my mind into thinking about something else for a while helps by giving myself more time over which to deal with the trauma so that I’m not overloaded by it hitting me all at once.
Cool - thanks!
Wow great troll you really got ‘em
Police have been remarkably restrained in HK compared to bloodthirsty fascist American cops. I’m sure there have been excessive force incidents which are regrettable, but no actual deaths have been attributed to HK police during the 2019-2020 protests. Meanwhile HK protestors were setting people on fire https://www.cnn.com/2019/11/10/asia/hong-kong-protester-shot-intl-hnk/index.html
Unfortunately it is still not the right thing to do. 

People from many countries need tourist dollars, you can spend your tourist dollars elsewhere and help the local people somewhere else, too. HK locals are not any more deserving of tourist income than say thai or Vietnamese people. Especially when you consider the GDP per capita in HK.
Ignorant in what way, Matt from China?
Thank you so much
It's nice that they have a lot of mental help resources at the end. I mean, probably not for OP as they're probably in the local language, but for folks who live there.
If you find out anymore details ( like whether he jumped or fell ) I would really like to know. Please PM
If you are needing courage, or to feel impowered / do the super man pose. Feet apart hands on hips, stand like superman. As well, I take deep slow deliberate breathes. 
I do it all the time!
I’m surprised your therapist hasn’t offered techniques to ground yourself. (I have a trauma therapist who gives me tools , not every session, but as needed)
I've been using Balance to improve my sleep, stress, mood, and more. Want to try it, too? They're offering a free year to all new members. https://www.balanceapp.com/referral-social

Balance has foundations. So if you don’t meditate, it will guide you. It is a Great program. Make meditation a daily practice. 

Another suggestion. Get the book non violent communication. Or get audio book from library. It is on YouTube. The author also is on YouTube. Very helpful with communication!
I sent you a message, if you want handouts.
[deleted]
Omg and her 5 year old daughter! 💔
I've been on that mountain. It's a beautiful place, but I didn't feel safe even on the "easy" trail. I'm sorry that happened to you.
Someone was hiding behind a bush sneaking up on people from behind and scaring them.
All the land in HK is leased for 99 years (or 100 I forget), not owned. Who would lease all that land? Chinese devs. Like EG. So all these huge buildings being built in 2020 are now built without returns expected or not finished.
Also could be the stock wipeout that Chinese and Hong Kong markets are facing right now. The Hang Seng has plunged by nearly 40% (about the level during the 1997 handover).
Poor guide and their family.


In general cases it's nearly always a bad idea for inexperienced swimmers to try and save someone drowning in the ocean. Inexperienced rescuers usually die or have to be rescued themselves.
Nice!
Pretty crazy how much time and money have been invested in curing PTSD when it could be cured by Dr. Mario.
You’re way too young for the internet. Yelling in itself is not abuse
Sooooo many adverts though. 

Edit: the app also isn't the original game, it stops for an ad at every level up and then the board is cleared and you start again. I think the original game that just keeps ramping up until the board is full without stops is better.
But I have iPhone ☹️ I had a very old version that I loved and played everyday but it's no longer works with the newer iPhone. It had the same interface with the online app shown here... I'm willing to pay $20 for the same game if it works with the current, new iOS.
[this article](https://www.madinamerica.com/2021/10/tetris-trauma-viral-twitter-thread-master-class-misleading-psych-research/) is a decent go through. it also links to the studies so you can read those.
Even better, I got you!! 👏
Found the ccp
I’m sorry but I have to respectfully disagree.
And yet.. how many police shootings of innocent ppl are there in America…? How many mass shootings? You going to tell ppl not to visit the Grand Canyon or NYC?
Ignorant in that it ignores the incredible vibrancy of HK and the relative openness it still enjoys. But sure.. ignore HK and show the mainland it succeeded it what it was trying to do
From USA Today “Police killed more than 1,300 people in 2023, a year that saw several high-profile cases including the fatal beating of Tyre Nichols in Memphis, Tennessee, the shooting of an environmental activist who was protesting the construction of a police and fire training center near Atlanta and the death of a Virginia man who was "smothered" in a hospital. There were only 14 days without a police killing last year and on average, law enforcement officers killed someone every 6.6 hours, according to the report, which is primarily based on news reports and includes data from state and local government agencies.”

Better start telling people to ignore the USA too… what with all that Government inflected death going on there.
I think there's a law or ethical guidelines for suicide reporting.  

At least in every Hong Kong article I read reporting suicide, or mentioning suicide they have to list mental help resources at the end.
So we’ve really just started digging into trauma therapy. For a while we had to focus on crisis therapy because I was going through something devastating in my present life. I think she’ll be doing that for this week’s session though. Last week we went over the things I already do or what’s worked for me in the past. I’m just long-winded so that took an hour 😅
These are great!! Thank you!!! I’m definitely going to download that and look at that book. I struggle with communication now that I feel safe. I’ve found that idk how to communicate in a healthy way because I’ve never had it modeled in a healthy way.
[deleted]
Scaring the mother and child and causing their death? That's horrible.. did the person get charged for causing a fatal accident to occur?
Exactly, there is a reason no life boats returned after the Titanic sank. They just sat back and waited for the screaming and drowning sounds to die out first.
I love Dr Mario more than Tetris.
Amazing comment
Verbal abuse isn’t abuse? I’m not talking someone shouting to turn the tv off, I’m talking a parent screaming “maybe I should just kill myself and you’d be happier!” At a 4 year old because that 4 year old has the audacity to feel sad when people make fun of her or scared when mom is throwing dishes at the wall and scream sobbing about how everyone hates her and we are all ungrateful brats she should have CPS come take away and she doesn’t deserve this after *begins telling 4 year old in explicit detail the sexual and physical abuse her dad perpetrated on her*.

The physical abuse was rare. The verbal abuse was not. I always thought growing up without video games was ideal, honestly, because it seemed like something I’d get obsessed with and not the healthiest. I still don’t like video games much, and I suck at anything that’s a “real” (not phone) video game. But if playing a video game would have protected my brain from developing my diagnosed ptsd, that would have been nice.
[This one](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/tetris/id1491074310) should be good for you, it's free too
Great rebuttal!
Not sure what part you disagree with but that’s your choice. And China has also made a choice to prioritise “national security” over tourism or just being a country that anyone would like to go to or stay in. Let them. There are plenty of people in the world who would appreciate your tourist dollar. China doesn’t even want you there.
“Relative openness”… “relative” openness means nothing to the people who have had to flee HK, lost their livelihoods or lost loved ones. China has already succeeded and annexed HK, that’s the reality. You are only helping them by visiting HK.
Different issue, different topic, take your typical wumao USA whataboutism somewhere else. You keep mentioning this but I’m not going to bite again. Disingenuous and doesn’t warrant a response.
If you watch the author on YouTube, it is surprising how judgemental people are when speaking. I’m learning a new language lol
[deleted]
What
Plenty of abusive parents keep their kids fed and alive. You made claims that verbal abuse isn’t abuse and are now moving goalposts. I’m done feeding trolls.
She was an adult trying her best obviously she fucked up a bit. She did her job tho, kept you fed? Made sure you went to school? Made sure you had clothes? If you think denying you video games added to the trauma, if you seriously believe that, you are very immature.
Thanks, I'll check it out!
Punishing the hard working people of Hong Kong because they are victims of political circumstances hurts the wrong people. Mainland tourists flock to HK in droves anyway. If all western/non sinosphere tourists stop visiting the city it only serves to hasten the transition to just another Chinese city. Outsiders should visit now while they can to explore Cantonese culture and experience what is left of the great city while it still maintains some of its unique identity.
And yet the relativeness probably still means the world to the ppl still there. 

But hey .. have fun on your anti CCP soapbox. HK is t what it was.. that’s for sure. But it’s pretty great.
Just sayin… you have a problem w HK and tell ppl to go elsewhere .. to places more deserving.. but the deaths in HK pale in comparison to other more popular tourist spots … and I don’t see you banging on in those subs like you do against China. Seems you have an axe to grind. 

When was the last time you were in HK anyway?
[deleted]
They just sat back and waited for the screaming and drowning sounds to die out first
No, she didn't do her job. I hope you aren't a parent.  

Doing your job as a parent is raising a child to be an independent adult who can make good choices on their own and can make a positive impact on others. 

Plenty of rich parents throw money at their kids, who are fed and clothed, but are completely incapable of taking care of themselves. They fail as parents.  They didn't do their job.
Hong Kong is lost already. No amount of tourism can save it now. Hong Kong is over, the day the national security law was introduced. Forget about it.
I left 3 months after the national security law was forced on the people, in solidarity with HKers and at great personal cost. But I value my freedom and doing what’s right.
[deleted]
Answering your own queries? Love that
No at its basis it’s making sure something survives and can make their own decisions, everything else is extra. You could have been an abortion. You’re mad because your mom was suicidal? You have no life experience. You’re under 21, right? Listening to the echo chambers that are Reddit. People with trust funds will survive lol. Also positive impact on others is subjective. What makes you think you know what it takes to raise a child? Why don’t you take any responsibility for who you are ?
Tell that to the millions of Hong Kongers who live and work in the city. If you only read the news you may think that. On the ground the culture in HK is very much alive. The change is inevitable but daily life is quite the same as it was before the protests. For now. Once the great firewall crosses the border then I’d be inclined to say that the final days have arrived. That day may come ten years from now, maybe sooner. As for today HK is a very nice place to visit. The greatest challenge is the expensive COL. if you visit Shanghai, Shenzhen or any mainland Chinese city, you will see that Hong Kong still feels very, very different. Taiwan and Taiwanese culture has more in common with mainland China than Hong Kong. The environment of HK is still very unique and worthy of anyone’s time. As for great cities of East Asia I’d say only Tokyo rivals Hong Kong. This still holds true. But as we both agree it won’t forever. Better to come and see now.
Your goal seems to have been to split hairs about wording. I don’t think OP meant to say “you should never do CPR on someone who seems clinically dead,” OP more meant to say (trigger warning for OP) “this person’s body was destroyed by a high fall so obviously CPR wouldn’t help in that scenario.” 

Chipping in with these comments playing semantics about when to do and when not to do CPR feels a bit insensitive to OP, and not particularly helpful to anyone else reading the comments
[deleted]
Feeling very exhausted from racism on solo travels (from ppl in hostel, not locals)
26 W black travelling in Mexico to visit my friend- Ive been staying in hostels for the last two weeks and the comments I’ve heard in the hostels have really disturbed me. I’ve heard the n word many times from non black americans - one making jokes about calling black people n words (Americans and Europeans),words like ghetto describing the area we were staying in thrown around & laughing at people being poor (Australian & American). A French guy called black people negroes. I’m feeling really exhausted by the whole experience because I find myself continuously reacting - has anyone else had this experience travelling in hostels or am I just having terrible luck?!

*IT HAS NOT BEEN THE MEXICAN PEOPLE SAYING THIS - they have been very lovely to me I am exclusively referring to Americans & Europeans in the hostel so stop saying they don’t know about race pls*

Pls note I also speak French so that was crazy people don’t use that word the word for black is noir. 
Friendly mod reminder about our subreddit rules: Help create an inclusive environment. r/solotravel has a zero-tolerance policy towards racism, sexism, bigotry, homophobia, transphobia, harassment and gatekeeping. Rule-breaking posts and comments will be removed and repeat offenders may be banned.
I'm visibly East Asian and American.  Unfortunately,  racism at hostels and in the backpacking community is a thing. I have had worse experiences with Europeans and Australians but I generally come across them way more than Americans.  Some Americans can be dumb as hell though because they'll assume I'm an Asisn tourist and say shit in front of me thinking I don't understand (happened mainly in Europe). I find the power dynamic really bad in SEA where some white people seem to love the glorified treatment they get for being white and have no shame saying the most racist shit when they are a fucking guest there. I just wanted to say I empathise and there's always a reason why every time I stay in a hostel and there's another POC, I feel like more often than not we insta bond and have a good venting session.
I am a black American (26M) and have been traveling Latin American since April. Started in Mexico, and working my way south. I have had a similar experience to you. I just keep it pushing. The whole world is racist towards black peoples for no reason at all. Every time I hear a comment I don’t like, I don’t even engage in that group of people anymore. I am okay with being by myself when I travel. I’m okay with finding another group to hang out with if I want to be social. Never let these degenerates get in the way of your travels and your dreams.
Crazy how many people are coming at you in this thread…sorry to hear about your experience, seems like it’s certainly not just cultural/linguistic differences. Loved traveling Mexico but definitely met some dense mf’s in the hostels there (locals were always lovely)
Interesting how everyone in here focused on the ghetto stuff and not the use of the n word on multiple occasions lmao
I'm mixed (black white) and French. I was so desensitized to being called the N word, having my skin tone, nose and hair mocked, and I only realized how messed up it was and how it had messed with my self esteem after moving to the US. I know it's not a perfect country but much less open racism than France at least in liberal areas.

French people are...yeah if you're black or middle eastern you're gonna have a bad time there. I don't even like visiting home anymore, haven't been there in years. Some French people in this thread are invalidating you because they're white and never experienced it, they all make racist jokes and remarks and then "it was a joke and you're too sensitive" but all of them except leftists tend to be super racist so unfortunately, it doesn't surprise me. Sorry you had that experience.
I don't have much input, but I'll never get the travelers who are racist and shit on the country they are in. Like, just stay home then?
It's a privilege to travel. A privilege to have the money , time, and freedom to see the world. It should be a way to open a person's eyes and expand their horizons. It should be a beautiful and educational experience. The flip side of that coin is when privilege turns into elitism and racism. It's such a sin that their minds stay closed and they cannot evolve. Travel is lost on these small-minded people. What a shame they have all the luck to do so and none of depth or intelligence to be humble and respectful as guests in another country or towards their fellow travelers. And I'm sorry those same people are obviously here running amok in these comments.
People in the replies going further than just disagreeing with you, straight to antagonising you? Very confusing, but maybe there's a lesson in it somewhere. We always assume people who travel are open-minded, especially people brave and adventurous enough to do it solo, but I've seen some interactions here that prove otherwise. Sorry you went through that... and for the people putting you through it again in the comments lol
People are being way too harsh with Op. I’m from France and most sane people wouldn’t use the N word in most contexts
Are you sure they didn't also find this thread and start posting? Holy shit these comments.
The sad truth about travelling as a person of colour or anyone who isn’t a straight white male, is that you need a decent hotel room with a good lock for sanity and safety. x
these comments are insufferable lol. im sorry you’ve been experiencing this OP
Ugh, so many defensive malding white people in the comments. OP, I totally get it. The amount of racism found in the solo travel / hostel communities is staggering and exhausting. It's really dampened my travelling experience as well because they get really entitled and defensive when you try to have a conversation about it. I remember white travelers in Pai mocking Black Americans for their "broken" "ghetto" english, Or saying the most vile things about refugees and immigrants while in Central America. Or saying vile Islamophobic shit when hearing the prayer call in southern Cambodia. Most are completely clueless or don't care about colonization and neo-imperialism or history in general. They are definitely in their own bubble and the scene is still very white. 

All I can say is call them out when you can, and make them uncomfortable back. Solidarity to you.
Ya’ll shes saying there are Americans saying negro. Thats racist as hell.
It’s possible to give the non-Americans saying negro an excuse but a non-black American saying negro is pretty wild.
I'm North African and honestly I just learned to avoid interacting with white people when I travel and I if I have to I try to create a formal distance where no familiarity is possible (In France for example I speak English even though I can speak French). The underhand racism is constant and if you comment on it they'll tell you that you're just being too sensitive. There's no winning.
This sub is veryyy accommodating of racist BS, ignore the comments here and try not to let racists ruin your trip as much as possible. It sucks but try and seek crowds where you feel more comfortable
No, you’re not alone. I’m black from Africa and more often than not experience racism in some form when travelling, more so in Europe. Some people need to stop acting like racism is non-existent. Unless you experience it yourself you won’t know. And this is coming from someone in a family with many nationalities/cultures.

Don’t let them get you down. You’re there to have a good time.
Keep traveling so there's more POCs out there in the hostels! We have to diversify this scene! If they don't like seeing people that look different than themselves then these racists should have stayed the hell home, wtf is the point of travel then smh. I'm sorry you had these bad experiences, I haven't experienced overt racism like that in hostels, but I have felt excluded many times when people socialize though. I'm speaking as a Latina from the US that's traveled most of western Europe and South America. In all honesty, I could care less about people like that because the trash took itself out, not to mention I'm in my early 30s so there's a lot of immaturity with the younger age groups too. Don't let these idiots keep you from doing what you love.
I’m sorry you have to experience this, it must feel really weird and hurtful
I'm not black but a POC born and raised in a 'white' western country and I am also sick of the racism, both overt and subtle comments. 

It's at the point where I no longer want to socialise in the common room as I'm forced to either 1) cop it on the shoulder and laugh it off or 2) call it out and make it uncomfortable for everyone. 

It surprises me how racist travellers can be despite having experienced many different cultures.
Honey, don’t let anyone gaslight you! When I was volunteering at a hostel in Mexico I had an American middle-aged lady call me the N word to the Spanish volunteers. Who didn’t even report it and joked about it— only telling me days later as if it was nothing and making themselves the victim. lol. Go further south to Brazil! Or Colombia. In Brazil I felt the most comfortable I EVER have as a black woman bc half the population identifies as black and they have amazing African culture. I actually fled Mexico after the racism from white people and went to Brazil and that was the best decision I ever made. In sum, head south!! 👏🏽
Wtf are these comments? It seems like a lot of you are invalidating OP’s experience and tolerating racist BS. What a shame.
While I don't know exactly what you've experienced, I do think that the "traveler" subculture is much more homogeneous and privileged than it first appears. 


It seemed very international and open-minded when I started traveling, but over time I started to see patterns. They skew white and northern European (or from the Anglo settler countries), left leaning and secular, probably but not always privileged. Huge swathes of the world are underrepresented on the hostel scene, often bcuz of cultural attitudes against solo traveling in addition to just income. 


Not bad things necessarily, but just food for thought. I have a lot more fun interacting with the local culture and being discerning about who I hang with. 
You are literally saying that Americans and French people used the n word, which is clearly not okay in either of those places and people are like nahhh it's fine? It is so not okay. And also if you are privileged enough to travel around different continents and speak English somewhat well, I would think you should very well know this word is not okay, like everyone watches TV and has internet&social media and this is 2024.
I have experience living in America, France and Switzerland. All 3 are racist. I’m pretty sure the whole world is racist (as a general rule), even those who say they aren’t when making “jokes” that are absolutely racist. “You should be able to laugh about anything”- they say. Just another way to make racism the norm. 
There are plenty of people who will not stand for this, though. I suppose you could look at it as a lens with which you can filter people out. It’s so unfortunate and so frustrating. 
I sure hope you meet plenty of people who outweigh the shitty ones.
Glad this is getting addressed on here because so many people excuse it as a unlikely situation which reflects who’s on this sub most. People talk about being treated great, locals approaching and helping them, etc… and a huge factor to it is race. The unfortunate reality is if you’re white, you’re going to be safer and face as many hostile situations. The visit Hawaii sub is peak this but more subtle about it
I'm sure OP is just as exhausted reading these comments. I sure as hell am. 

Sorry OP for this experience. I'm a white American but would also been pissed hearing people talk that way. 

Regardless of the specific wording people the intent to dehumanize non white people as well as poor local people isn't ok and we shouldn't let it become normalized in solo travel culture.
People in the US do their best to appear progressive with regards to racial equaity. As soon as they think they're free of earshot, they can rapidly reveal their true faces. I'm sorry you experienced that.
The racists exposing themselves in here🙄
I’m really sorry for the experience you’re having with some European descent people, I found this to be true on my solo travels too, I found the White people didn’t really want to socialize with people of colour a lot more than one would like to think. Even the people that think of themselves as non racist end up automatically gravitating towards Whites without an opportunity to get to know others.
I’m a white solo traveller who has travelled for months and months around Europe, and at almost every hostel I found myself disgusted by either the casual or overt racism I encountered from fellow travellers. It’s ridiculous and way too prevalent. I think people are still uneducated and ignorant to what is and isn’t racist, or are simply prejudiced. 

It was very disappointing, discouraging, and disheartening. 

I assure you I did my best to call it out at every opportunity, and ceased spending time or associating with anyone who was doing it. Frankly, fuck them!
These comments are disgusting. OP is describing her experience as black woman and everybody telling her what she experience isn’t a big deal. 

What even is this subreddit if people can’t share their experience from their own perspective.
So sorry you're experiencing this, and sorry so many people in these comments are being assholes to you! I think generally when traveling and staying in hostels you'll encounter a lot of people you probably wouldn't encounter in your day-to-day life. These people should all know better, but unfortunately a lot of people out there are either ignorant or just don't care...as evidenced by some of the comments here.

Hopefully you can find some like-minded people to chat with or just try to enjoy your own company. I tend to just keep to myself in most hostels and mostly just use the hostel for sleeping, so maybe try to spend more of your time out of the hostel if possible. I can't comment on whether this is a common hostel experience or not, but I hope you have more positive experiences in the future and that this doesn't affect your interest in traveling!
Just to say sorry you experienced this and sorry you're getting such an unsympathetic response - essentially proving your point - here. Very disappointing indeed.
OP I’m sorry people here are arguing about your experience. The whole point of these insults is that there is always a slightly logical use case/explanation one can point to when they’re used maliciously. Which is exactly why they’re insults. Yes, in a hypothetical world where colonialism and racism never happened then sure a Frenchman saying negro is fine. But that’s not the real world and yall need to grow up. The French brutally murdered thousands of Africans during their colonial expansion and to this day have enacted policies in which the former colonies need to pay France monetarily for their independence. The native peoples of North Africa were labeled as the Berbers, which is a bastardization of the LITERAL French word for barbarism. So, no. When a Frenchman chooses to call you negro rather than black or African American or whatever else, it’s a choice. A malicious choice. Or an ignorant, yet equally racist choice. 

Europeans have more Neanderthal DNA than other ethnicities. Would yall be ok being called part Neanderthal? According to most of the arguments above, since the person calling you that is logically correct, it should be fine right?
Wtf are these comments??? 

I’m a POC on a trip right now wishing I did a hostel stay, but if this is the general attitude then nevermind. 

Shameful.
Everyone getting stuck in the word ghetto is so irritating. I hear you OP and I see you. I'm so sorry you are going through this. I lived in Mexico City during and after COVID and I cannot tell you how many times I heard the word "Negra!" screamed out at me from a car passing by. It was exhausting. It feels almost like you are a clown or an animal in a cage that exists for someone else's entertainment. Even countries with moderate diversity can show a shocking amount of ignorance around race (just look at the melting pot that is the US). If you need to go home, GO HOME. Take a break. Constant racism IS exhausting. You aren't wrong for feeling how you feel and being tired of hearing people talking crazy. Just know that there are black people around the world who feel your pain and we will hold space for you. Sending hugs.
These comments are a perfect example of why race is still a huge issue in America. POC (especially black people) are almost always made out to be the bad guy for calling out racism. Like you were just minding your business and these people said racist stuff around you. In what world should you have to just tolerate that.

You are NOT overreacting. It was racist and you shouldn’t just have to “suck it up and deal with it”. I swear some white people are so afraid to accept their own biases that they will tell you, A BLACK WOMAN, that what you experienced isn’t blatant racism.
Okay neck beards calm down! Enough is enough of the “that’s not racism talk” the area being referred to as ghetto was one of the areas in Mexico City with a higher indigenous population - it doesn’t matter who it was racist TO. Clearly I never said it was racist to black people (even though I think it also is) I was referring to racism towards Mexicans. Secondly all of you trying to be like “well if ur tone was like that” blah blah blah you’re never gonna get the response you want from me. I’m a grown woman and I keep myself together I’m not doubling down and being like oh ur so right maybe I wasn’t nice to them that’s why they’re racist!!! Stfu - it’s never gonna happen. Y’all clearly hate someone being strong & that’s ur own problem
Heartfelt sorrow you’re having to face trash type of people that say such things to you. No place for this today’s (so called) civilised societies. Keep strong and know there are so many more decent people to respect and care for who your are. ❤️
So sorry! That is terrible..
❤️‍🩹❤️‍🩹❤️‍🩹
I’m white and this doesn’t surprise me. Bigotry is rampant. It’s not as bad as it was but plenty of people still are. One would think travelers would be more accepting of others but it seems not to be the case.
Europe is going through a “thing” right now where unlike America the young are the ones that are anti progressive and racist. It’s getting worse. The Europeans backpacking overseas generally are the wealthier ones so they are more clueless and haven’t had to function/work for themselves so they are into their own mental vacuums about life. 

I’m american of European parents raised in Europe. I have a different experience of American travelers

I’ve definitely experienced it in hostels and with travelers. I tend to socialize with locals and not the traveling community because it’s gross now.
I've found white people love to virtue signal how tolerant and open minded they are but deep down they all still have that Neo colonialist mindset and think they're superior to non whites and look down on their cultures. I've found this to be true for most white people irl at least whether abroad or not.
As a Brit I don't think ghetto would be considered a racist term to avoid and if I was going to associate it with any place it would be the Warsaw ghetto not black people.
I met a polish guy who said people were too offended at the use of the n-word (said the actual word with a hard r) as it’s normal where he comes from and “not considered offensive.” I was floored. Thankfully his friend kinda called him out saying it’s different for americans but still I told him it wasn’t cool. His argument was that he leans liberal it’s “just what they say” where he comes from. Yes there was a language barrier but I don’t think that’s what this was. 

There seems to be this idea that americans are too easily offended and other, typically european, tourists say shit to stir shit then say “look I was right you’re so easily offended.” Ironic that someone who considers themselves open minded because of their travels immediately disregards a perspective foreign to his own. I didn’t speak to him again.
Brooo I feel you. 

I just got back from Europe and I'm from Australia ( but my background is Indian) I encountered so many shitty situations or just saw people be absolute wankers. For me it ranged to treating me like the help or less than if that makes sense or I get viewed suspiciously. Since there's so many  South Asians in service positions a lot of white people just used to be being rude to them and I could then see it interact with me afterwards. 

It just made me appreciate Sydney being multicultural. 

Also I'm sorry for the Aussie who was being a cunt and I promise we are not all like that.
Désolé pour toi, sincerement. J'ai remarqué la même chose quand j'ai voyagé ( je suis fr blanc ). Y'a vraiment des cons/connards, et je crois qu'ils sont encore plus cons en vacances ...

J'ai même pas de bons conseils à te donner, je peux juste te souhaiter bon courage...

“Few words are as ideologically charged as “ghetto.” Its early uses centered on two cities: Venice, the site of the first ghetto in Europe, established in 1516; and Rome, where the ghetto endured until 1870, decades after it had been dismantled elsewhere. Over the nineteenth century, as Jews were emancipated and ghettos were dissolved, the word “ghetto” transcended its Italian roots and became a more general term for pre-modern Jewish life. It also came to designate new Jewish spaces—from voluntary immigrant neighborhoods like New York’s Lower East Side to the holding pens of Nazi-occupied Eastern Europe—as dissimilar from the pre-emancipation European ghettos as they were from each other. After World War Two, ghetto broke free of its Jewish origins and became more typically associated with African Americans than with Jews. Chronicling this sinuous transatlantic journey, this talk reveals how the history of ghettos is tied up with the struggle and argument over the meaning of a word”.
-Dept. of History, Harvard
East Asian Aussie here, lived in both the US and Australia (several decades each) I don’t do hostels anymore but I have noticed in the past my felllow countrymen will only bond or socialize with those who look white.  I will never be included in any conversations at length and it is not because I can’t speak the language it is because of my appearance that I am always excluded
Visibly East Asian American and I guess the thick skin from growing up in rural TN has a silver lining after all. Racism sucks while traveling, but it’s nothing like the home grown and systematic racism I’ve experienced in the U.S. 

The racism I’ve experienced abroad seems to come from ignorance, while domestically it seems like it’s been more rooted in downright hate
I’ve experienced similar events as a Black American woman in Italy. The Italians were lovely towards but the Australian tourists in my group were not.
OP, I’m really sorry.  As an American of Mexican descent married to a European… aye the shit I hear.

I really regret not nipping this shit in the ass when I was much younger.  

White people: please just call out your fellow white people.  If you’re not comfortable with that, acknowledge what’s going on to your POC roommates.  It’s so fucked to not do anything.
Colonizers treat the world like their personal theme park
The comments in here are an example of how right wing politics has enabled the racists to come outta the closet. Average Joes and Karen's normalising this shit. 

This is weird. I hope every one of you who told OP that she misinterpreted the n word experiences abuse and discrimination in a foreign country. Y'all reek of privilege and karma can be a bitch.
Sorry about all these pale apologists OP. Your feelings are valid and I hope you find a way to enjoy the rest of your trip. People are stupid and racist everywhere in the world. Unfortunately it’s not a problem exclusive to America.
This is why I’m so scared to travel solo. I’m sorry, OP! 😭🩷
Unfortunately, that’s how the world is. As an Indian, I am ALWAYS faced with racism especially from American and European tourists. Not British people as much, but man Americans and especially french people can be so full of themselves
I’m sorry that it happened to you!! Many “expats” think they can behave however they want in another country.
I am sorry you have to deal with this.  It is very frustrating how many scumbags there can be.
White middle class masculine-presenting European here... Yeah, this post totally tracks. The worst is, in Europe at least, that calling our racism is sometimes more taboo than the racism. Is almost as if people here think "ME? RACIST?? I'm superior than everyone else! How could I be racist?"

Edit: typo
I'm of south east asian descent. I chatted with a random middle aged australian man in Thailand about my plan to travel across Europe. He was surprised and confused about how i could afford it, saying this directly to my face - 

'You must be staying at cheap hostels'

I never stayed in a hostel or shared accommodation throughout the entire trip. He didnt know what i do for a living or how much money i had in my bank account, he assumed i was poor simply because im from asia, as if im not worthy of traveling comfortably.

White people with superiority complex are absolutely disgusting 🥴
So many Aussies are like this. Sounds about right. Any BIPOC you can link up with during your travels?
That sucks tremendously, sorry you had to experience that.

I always had a „romantic“ opinion on hostels, using them as a young adult (only in Europe). But after years of staying in hotels I would never go back now. 
I always thought that people who stay in hostels are nicer and well-educated people, but honestly that’s just not true. Unfortunately they are just normal travelers  as well. 
And at least in a hotel I can easily avoid them.

I actually prefer the 70-year old couple sitting next to me at the hotel breakfast. Sure, they may have  racist thoughts as well, but they would never state them as confidently to strangers as some hostel guys.
Go almost anywhere in the world except a few countries (and Africa of course) and black people are a massive minority. The USA may not be the least racist place on earth, but for Black people, it actually kind of is. France? Good luck. Arab countries? Nein. Germany? Asia? Scandic countries? South America?


People are idiots. 
Sorry about your experience OP. Someone commented about their true faces coming out. I think that’s true of all races. I worked on a study where we gathered mixed race groups first and it was very normal and friendly and then we split them up into groups of their own races and every group became more comfortable and open and talked about things regarding race relations that they otherwise wouldn’t. They don’t see other races in their in group, it’s not true acceptance it’s just tolerance and holding the peace.
I’ve noticed a bizarre amount of racism from white travellers in hostels. Makes no sense to me
No one should have to experience racism.
Best you can do is ignore them. This is an example of how badly educated and brought up these people are. My adopted daughter is black and was called the n word once by a dumb white dude who thought it was normal to say that to people. I gave him an education he’ll never forget.
Have to ask was this at casa Columpio in CDMX?
People staying at hostels laughing at others for being poor??? Ok.
Europeans and Aussies can be big pricks
I’m white but have witnessed this a lot in hostels. E.g 2 guys from New Zealand yelling the n word over and over in reference to a song they like. they were literally just yelling the n word on repeat.
I have the same experience as you, worst racism traveling I have experienced from travelers from Anglosaxon countries particularly South Africa and Australia.
Omg, WTF with these comments, I am sorry OP !!
I’m British and use Ghetto, I had no idea it’s offensive. We use it all the time without it having any racist associations 
Sorry your going through this, it sounds like the other people in your hostel just really suck. 
If the other people were speaking in Spanish I could see how that could justify use of the word, but in English there just really is no excuse unless your being an arsehole. 

Im from UK also and got brought up to neeeeever say the word although I don't know how that translates through other countries/cultures. 
Also - People with the privilege of international travel laughing about poor people? Yuck. 

How much longer do you have there? Maybe do some investigating and find out how much longer the other people have? 
I know its shit and you shouldn't have to but if you have funds to I'd be tempted to speak to staff and/or move hostels if the people there are creating that bad an atmosphere.

Previously I've put up with really shit hostels/hotels i was miserable in because I'd already paid for it, but when i look back on how much flights were etc I've decided in future if im able to I'll just cut my losses and rebook to actually enjoy the time away, seeing as I'm spending a small fortune on it anyway.
highly recommend traveling in south america instead of mexico. Mexico somehow brings out the worst of the white colonizer types because of proximity and mexican/american racial tension. I found colombia to be a really wonderful country!
I’m so sorry that’s happening to you. Your feelings are absolutely valid. Please take care of yourself and do what is best for you, whether that’s distancing yourself from these folks or speaking up to them, or something else.
Black people don't have global ownership of the word "ghetto" and I can imagine a lot of scenarios where a French person would use the word "negro" without understanding its connotation in American English. Not to say you're full of shit, the world outside USA is definitely racist, but when traveling in other countries it's best to remember that your specific historical/generational trauma is not necessarily at the forefront of everyone else's conscience. Are these things being said in a way that is directed toward you, and in such a way that it's clearly meant to cause discomfort? Or is it just people being ignorant because they are from a different culture or country than yours? 


 Edit: just saw OP's edit, obviously it's uncool when Americans use being away from home as an excuse to say rude racist stuff. Also my b for assuming OP is American but tbh this type of sensitivity is typical of both Americans and Brits.
[removed]
this is horrible. i’m really sorry
I'm a Black American man. I've been traveling for two months, one throughout Europe, one in Asia. I have done some hostels, but to guard my joy, I rarely use energy to connect with white hostel folks from the U.S., a country built on anti-Black racism. I also stay away from white people who come in groups from countries like Australia/UK. I have never quite had piss poor one-on-one incidents with people in hostels, but folks are embolden by groupthink and group action when they travel in a group. Stay away from them is my advice. 

I also stay away from solo AirBnbs/apartment stays, which is another story, but I think they bring out the worst in locals. It gives them an opportunity to treat you badly without true accountability. Hotels can be your best friend. I'm currently in SE Asia, and I'm in a hotel. Last night, I went to a bar, where I sat at one bar seat where all other seats were taken. Everyone was of Asian descent except for a table of white Americans in the back of the bar. They were the loudest people in the bar, which was fine, but all I could hear was them complaining about one thing or another. 

Know that these are privileged folk who often don't have much going for them in their hometowns. They come to be praised by locals and live cheaply off the land. The white men, in particular, often feel they can pull a much more attractive woman in these places than they can at home, and they are correct, bc of what's perceived they have financially. There's a lot of incels, fools and assholes among this travel culture. Don't waste your time with them. Folks who are truly interested in the culture and genuine travel experiences will reveal themselves if they are meant to be a part of your travel experience. I hope you have a better end to this trip and safely make it back to the UK. Feel free to DM with any challenges.
Some people are just awful. Don’t let the scum bring your mood down.
I wonder if hostels have changed a bit from the times I used to travel. I haven’t really intensely backpacked since post Covid but from beforehand, but hostels used to be a place where you would meet free spirits, fellow travelers, explorers. Then increasingly it became just the value version of hotel. I feel air bnb became the new place for those types of travelers. Furthermore, I think younger generations don’t travel as much. Honestly if u learn how to book airbnbs well, shared host stays were the best. (Ie you live with the host)
People = shit
I’m sorry you can’t just live your life free from this ignorance.
i am sorry that you are experiencing this and i hate that people are making excuses for the comments you’ve received. ignorance is no exception for being rude 

i hope that you can still find some joy in your travels! stay safe my friend
America is a safe country for most. Humans come in different races..it’s normal for people to notice and mention that. Americans think the US is racist until they travel international
Im really sorry. Well travelling also makes you discover there are shitty and ignorant people everywhere.
Best thing to do is let the ignorant stay ignorant. If they are open to dialogue, you might have a chance to educate them, otherwise, whatever they say can’t hurt you unless you allow it to. 

Let them be and go on with your travels and enjoy yourself.
People think America is racist until they travel and they realize it’s actually not that racist at all
I was solo traveling in Japan and some reason there are random Africans on the street that peddle to foreigners to come to some dodgy club/store in Harajuku or Shinjuku- obviously this garners racist comments from tourists and I feel bad for any of the Black-Westerners that have to hear it, but it’s a shitty situation all around.

For the most part tho most of the black tourists I met I’ve vibed with.
Australians, kiwis and even the english have a long history of racism. In the past this was a huge issue in cricket sport. But it has improved now because of change in power dynamics (India started controlling the cricket money and suddenly everyone has started behaving nicely!)
Travelers from other countries are generally better than the general whole from which they come from. With that said, there's a weird collective dislike for Brits/Aussie men especially for being loud/ obnoxious drunks . White Western European young men are not far behind many of whom identify with the far right movement and feel empowered to be more vocal about xenophobia. Fortunately most of the girls are moderate to left leaning/higher educated and generally more lovely ppl.
Sorry you've experienced this OP. 
This is insane wtf. Sorry you are going through this
Hey girl. I'm really sorry you've had this experience. There are often a lot of racist and ignorant people in the world and it is super distressing especially when you expect 'world travellers' to be more respectful and self aware.  
  
Personally I've never witnessed anything as horrendous as this, and wish I could have been there to join forces with you. I've mostly witnessed similar derogatory comments towards locals and local culture, especially passport bro type grossness in Latin America, and occasionally other Europeans literally telling me I'm not from England because I "don't look English" (I'm mixed) - erm, I think I know where I'm from thanks, and you can imagine how ridiculous the concept of 'looking English' sounds to me as a Londoner!

I'm going to DM you the name of a Facebook group that you might find more of a safe space and potentially find some girls to meet up with if you're still out there. I've travelled extensively in Mexico and generally had good experiences in hostels. But I do tend to avoid very party-focused hostels and look for places that attract more chill people, a few things I look out for are - that new hostelworld feature that shows people's flags so you can see which hostels have the most diverse group of travellers staying, locally owned hostels, hostels with events that promote conscious tourism and cultural exchange e.g. have language exchange nights etc. Checking their Instagram can help give you an idea too.

I hope at least some of the conversations in this thread have been healing. Keep honouring your values, you sound like a kind and respectful traveller.
Im Asian who has travelled Latin America 1.5 years and my experience is the opposite - most racism or ignorance I’ve experienced is from locals, can’t remember a time I received racism from other travellers. 

Nothing too bad, just stuff like being with my white friends iin a restaurant and the waiter not speaking to me and speaking to my white European friends even after I’ve shown to him I can speak Spanish and my friends cannot. And being called chino about 1000 times even though I’m not Chinese. This hardly happened in Argentina or Uruguay btw, I experienced this more from people of color in Latin America, white Latinos never called me chino to my face. And this only ever happened with locals, other travellers have been very polite to me and have asked me where I’m from as opposed to incorrectly assuming where I’m from.

In my experience, ignorance and poverty go hand in hand. The ignorant behaviour I received in 99% of the time came from people who clearly came from a poor background. I never received ignorance / casual racism in rich neighborhoods or from well dressed people. And surprise surprise - white Latinos tend to be richer than brown/black Latinos.
Im black and every place I’ve traveled I’ve only heard (and this rarely happened thankfully) racist remarks from tourists, never from a local. I’m sorry that happened to you! Some people are truly just disgusting and get off on spreading their hate in the world.
Im white American and was in Europe the last month or so and was shocked how comfortable so many of them from all different countries felt comfortable using the n word. I tried explaining that’s about the worst word we have and no one says that but heard a lot of “it’s just a word” “only Americans get offended by it” “my black friend from Lebanon gave me the pass” or whatever lol. Idk if it’s just so intertwined into our own history that they just don’t understand what it really means to a black American most of the time or if they don’t care. But yeah I’ve noticed this as well and was surprised bc the stereotype is Europeans consider themselves “educated” or “liberal/progressive” etc (blah blah Europe isn’t a country we’re not all the same) I know, relax
European here, Italian to be exact but this is one of those things where the specific nationality doesn't really matter. Of course Spanish people are exempted because it's literally their language.

We DO know that "negro" is offensive, for fuck sake. We absolutely do, there's no way you use that word without having that connotation, and you know it even if you don't speak English. C'mon...

As for ghetto, however, I'm sorry but that word is not associated primarily with black people here. First thing coming to mind is Jews and WWII. Second thing, any particularly bad neighborhood in a city. Not a particularly nice word ofc, but it's not an insult to black people exclusively like the n word
Sorry about your experience, wishing you the best in the rest of your travels.  The world is an unforgiving place.  May you meet people who are less shitty.
Avoid hostels altogether. 
Damn a lot of the people under this post can't read. Open the schools!
I think it really depends on the timing. I've had really good luck and made friends recently but the first time I was travelling, I did not have the pleasure and I was kind of scared
I think hostels attract a socioeconomic class that may be more prone to racism and sexism. Granted, most ARE NOT of this ilk, but as with most inappropriate behavior within a group they stand out exactly because they are such disgusting people. Hotels are relatively inexpensive and definitely more private and comfortable in many areas in Mexico. Perhaps this may be a better option.

I have never stayed in a hostel because I had quite enough dorm living in college, but I can tell you that I never had any problem finding social interaction, with locals, in most places I have visited.

I have never understood the attraction to hostels. If I wanted to interact with people exactly like me, I would just stay home.
This is why you get a room not a hostel 👍 gL if you ever travel to Europe they are incredibly xenophobic and open about it in many countries.
Damn, sorry to hear this man, that's horrible. I'm a white dude, but I do feel like hostels attract the worst kind of party bro, ignorant, culturally oblivious kind of people. I try to avoid them at all costs, including the restaurants/cafes they often have.
This is why I stay alone. Who tf wants racist garbage ruining their trip?
Wow. So sorry to hear that this has happened. I travel a lot but stay in hotels. I do know however, that there can be ugly Americans I.e. Americans saying really racists things about the host country’s people in their presence assuming the person will not/ does not understand. As Forest Gump said “stupid is as stupid does”. They do it home so they can’t help themselves, they’ll do it abroad . Very sad.
one thing you're going to have to do as you travel is how to see the world beyond you're particular American experience as a black person.

A Ghetto is not an American concept. Jewish people were placed in "ghettos" in world war 2 and it had absolutely nothing to do with the run down areas of American cities where poor black people concentrated in the 70s and 80s.

Believe it or not, hip hop music makes it out to Europe and because the N word is largely used in that music, people just go ahead and say it in the context its used in music or movies. So don't be shocked if you see one European calling another "My N\*\*\*r."

A french man calling black people negro might not be offensive in France, heck English is probably his second language. To me its no different that calling a white person a caucasian

I'm not saying racism doesn't exist outside the USA, i'm just saying you cannot apply what you believe it to be in America to the rest of the world especially these very superficial examples. Call me when they start making monkey noises when you walk by or follow you around a store to watch you.
Wishing you good vibes OP! Have a great rest of your trip and don’t take it personally. They’re idiots and they’re completely ignorant. Explore the world and have your fun.
Real life is not reddit apparently. Choose your battles wisely.
Horrible. Truly sorry for your experience. And the French say Black now, “Un Black”. 
A lot of racist whites in the comments huh?
I call BS on all of this. Look at OPs comment history. They deleted all their old stuff for a reason….
Sadly, Aussies are very far behind on being multicultural accepting.

It’s a slow progress, however there is progress.
The N word stuff is crazy but ghettos have been inhabited by all races. Unless they’re only saying it to you I wouldn’t chalk that one up to racism.
This is why I don’t keep white friends or rarely friends of any other race because too many people are like this and I will not waste my time trying to filter them out. My last white friend I had we been friends for 10+ years and he randomly asked if he can say “nigga” 😒 boy oh boy.
Probably a lot of western tourists go to non-western countries thinking it it's a safe haven to take their mask off and spew all sorts of bigotry they want, because in their imaginations being not-racist is a "woke western concept"
I’m really sorry you’re experiencing that. Thanks for sharing.
I don’t have much else to say other than if you’re finding your traveling experiences covered with racism, it allows for gratitude when you return home.

As wherever you’re from I’m sure has tons of issues, at least it’s not as openly racist as some of these places.

Traveling in part for me is all about context, “here versus home”; not in the sense that it’s a competition, but one of the only ways we can enjoy or experience other cultures is by having a baseline of our own.  Sorry you’re having a rough time, but try and enjoy your trip regardless.  The same way idiots back home don’t change your opinion of where you live, don’t let idiots abroad ruin the few days you have outside of home.
The word "ghetto" has an origin that precedes it's modern use to do with black folks.
Ok so this may sound racist but starts back me up here. Mexicans and Asians are both still very racist against black people in general compared to white Americans and Europeans.
I’ve travelled all over Latin America, both for work and for pleasure.  I’m white hispanic and my wife is black US Cit.  We lived in many countries for up to four years.  There is significant racism against native people, they call Indios, also against black people in many countries.  Interestingly, it seemed also combined with people in lower economic groups.  My wife was never bothered or felt any racist attitudes; occasionally a curious look in countries where there were relatively few black people.  This said, Latinos seem to have a very tough skin and refer to each other as negro, flaco, gordo, chinito, etc.  we would fall over in the US but they seemed to tolerate it.  Maybe with younger generations it’ll change.
What’s the problem with the word “ghetto” now? In Europe this has never been a problem. Btw, the word “negro” in Spanish means “black”. You can’t ban a colour because of your own sensitivity.
Sorry, that really sucks, you deserve better 🥺
Honestly, hostel people give you a good average what globally is around and those young opinions/behavios. Please have in mind where you are taveling and what age those opinions have.
There are just some countries that tolerate racism or got adapted by it. I dont think you would experience that kind of behavior  from 50+ years old people, because minds make mistakes and grow in time. If this occurs you might have to explain you position. Be able to explain how f.e. the deportations from africa happened or other documented cruel occasions.
To the other hand try NOT to take it to personal. People are drunk, might wanna seem "cool" or other stupid reasons. Stay calm as long as there is no physical danger and walk on to the next location if you don't want explain anymore. 
I also experiences very low level US-americans in Mexico. Was cringing like on a diarrhea night.
Wipe it off, know your abilities.... in Mexico way more worse things can happen to you. (I my experiance the average mexican is very kind, help and peaceful. They appreciate a good life quality , food wise and social.)
I’m sorry that you experienced that. I’m a white American living abroad. I’m so over racism. We all one race, “the human race”! I have friends of all skin colors, races and religions. I always have felt travel makes you a better person experiencing different cultures. Maybe Mexico wasn’t far enough from the US to make those Americans better people. We don’t get to choose our skin or ethnicity when we’re born… and because of this, no one should treat someone else any differently. I hope you can put this experience in your past, don’t dwell on it, be an awesome person and my hopes are that my race can become better people.
When traveling solo I always prefer on staying on hotel without other foreigners.
Not all the good hotels appear in internet, is pretty good to ask the locals for a recommendation on hotels.
I’m from California and we use ghetto to describe the bad area of any city/town. I didn’t think it’s racist?
As a non native English speaker I’d say “ghetto” can be used just to define a sketchy area or a slum but their vocabulary is probably quite limited. There’s no excuse for the N word though, especially by native English speakers who should know better. It’s up to you whether you want to engage or walk away - at the end of the day you should put yourself first
Are your hostel mates the rich party type crowd?
Well… Americans and Australians are the worst 2 kinds probably but the people you met are probably the minority still. Well hope the rest of your trip is less horrible
Just curious, are you American? If you are, you already know Americans are 'like a box of chocolates. You never know what you're gonna get.'  
  
Gonna be honest, I've had twice as many less than stellar experiences with Europeans in Mexico as I have had positive ones. Germans have been great. French are a 'no' as are Russians (but I don't think they're going many places now-lol). All the Mexicans (in the Yucatan, CDMX slightly less so) have been really cool. 

If you don't have money for an AIrbnb, local hotel, or private room, it's gonna be a *long* trip. Spend as much of the day outside the accomodations as possible and enjoy the locals. Join a few walking tours. Those usually have a better quality of people and you're likely to meet other solo travelers you can do things with.

To borrow another phrase from Forrest Gump, "Stupid is as stupid does." When Stupid talks, give them the death stare they deserve and keep it moving.
I feel like calling a place ghetto is not racist
>  A French guy called black people negroes


He may just not know the PC term in his second or third language.  I don't know which terms for races are PC and which aren't in French.
Wait until you find out the locals use the word negro because that literally means the color black in the language Spanish .
I'm really sorry you're going through this. I can't imagine staying in a hostel, personally. I get that you're there because you are a young person. However, when you are dealing with poor people, you are sometimes, but not always, dealing with people who perceive that their socioeconomic status is threatened by people of color. Thus, the racist BS.

That said, you are free to live your life just like anyone else. There is absolutely nothing wrong with you. The problem is them.

Use it as motivation to seek a life where you can outprice them in terms of travel and be able to slam a luxury hotel door in their face one day. Not saying you can buy your way out of racism but you can generally buy yourself some more peace.
sorry about that. sometimes just putting in the extra dollar is what it takes to protect your peace.
I am so shocked and sorry to hear you've been experiencing this! It's wild to me that this is happening in a hostel, because that's where I've always found the most open and kind-hearted people who are literally there to meet people from all across the world

I hope you still have a wonderful trip nonetheless. I'm very jealous you're getting to explore Mexico, everyone I've met from there is incredible
>words like ghetto describing the area we were staying in thrown around

I mean, was it a ghetto area? If they were just saying it to talk shit on the area then that's fucked, but just describing a ghetto area as ghetto isn't racist or mean really. 

Them talking shit about poor people is fucked up though. And if they're saying the area is ghetto and it's not, then yeah they're just being dicks. 

And the rest of it, totally racism, and fuck those people. I'm sorry you have to deal with that.
Lots of Latin people have hang ups with black people unfortunately. Some has to do with fear. The other has to do with separating themselves from African/Indigenas bloodlines.

I think ghetto is widely used these days in different ways. IMO doesn't always relate to POC just maybe cheap or low end.

Euros/Americans. You surprised ? Built from slaughtering and race discrimination. Nothing has changed too drastically. YOUR job is to document all of this in your mind so when you grow bigger and better than they are you can look back and tell the tales of how the low class/ghetto Westerners acted :)

Stay strong. Kudos for venturing out of your comfort zone.
Are you going to be ok?
Not sure about the French guy, but right or wrong, those words aren't generally considered particularly bad or non-PC by Mexicans. If you're expecting American or European PC phrases, Mexico is not the place for you. 


On the plus side, realize that you can just let it go on a personal front. They don't care, it's not a personal attack, it's just common slang in their home country. 
I’m sorry you’re exhausted, and as a fellow sensitive person, can empathize. Maybe it’s better to protect your peace by stepping away during these situations rather than always reacting (though I’m not sure if by that you mean you are responding or feeling disturbed internally without saying anything?). Either way, I’m disappointed at all of the comments invalidating your experience —which is true to you. An option is to ask clarifying questions if you feel like the group might receive it well (e.g., do you mean ABC by using that term? I prefer not to use that word/phrase because it could mean X, Y, Z).
I’m from SEA and in Europe and Mexico I have met white people (Aussie, Kiwis mostly) who talk shit about my country despite having lived and benefitted from our “cheap” country.
This is something that I experienced in Thailand and it kinda soured the trip quite a lot. I'm South American but look quite European, so people don't always assume straight away that I'm not European. But well, it's not like I hide who I am, and chatting and exchanging culture is one of the fun parts of solo travel, but when people learn where I'm from the change in attitude is night and day in mere minutes. I didn't had slurs thrown at me, but it was quite obvious I was being ignored or not taken as seriously

And the attitude is awful, so many people say they like the "friendly locals" when they meant to say they like being glorified and treated as a superior being for being white. Heard so much mockery, disinterest and disrespect for the local culture and customs, it was just such a turn off. It's a crowd that proud themselves of being "world explorers" but it seems they never left the depths of their own asses in the first place, and this thread is only reinforcing that theory
“You seeing / hearing this shit?!” 🤨🤦🏽 = 🫱🏼‍🫲🏽
❤️🙏🙏🏼🙏🏽
Some white tourists can be so entitled, especially when they are travelling through SEA. It’s like they expect everyone to grovel at their feet and speak in perfect English. Of course not everyone’s like that, but honestly I’ve met enough to see that they can be fucking obnoxious and ignorant. Sorry if it offends anyone but it’s true.
Wow. I’m East Asian and American. (Although I look racially ambiguous) and I actually had the opposite experience than you. I mostly became friends with Europeans and Australians in these hostels and I even have several travel romance with these Europeans in the hostel. Europeans still flirt with me. They are open to being my friend. Never experienced any racism. Granted, you said it happened in Europe and I haven’t been there. The hostels I stayed at were in Mexico, Guatemala, Hawaii, and Belize.
Stay strong
Love your positive attitude! And \[as a white American\], I'm really sorry that you and OP had to experience this shit. I often wonder: Why can't we all just get along? But then again, you just can't fix stupid people.
Not everyone is racist, but every country in the world has a part of their people who are racist. 


I think there is a natural number of AHs who can't even be changed even with education, and then you have people who can be pushed either way with education and that depends on the country. 


And hating people with a difference was a protection mechanism against disease and violent attacks in stone age, but nowadays it really doesn't have any logical reason. 
Everywhere I go people call me an ass hole. Everyone hates on me for no reason. Am I the common denominator? Well yes I suppose, but it’s not my fault. 

Now if I said that statement, would you believe it? Or would you tell me perhaps my behavior has something to do with it?
If you go to Argentina, you might hear the word negro a lot, and it can be in a mean way and also in a friendly way as well. We tend to call everyone not based on skin color; negro, negrito(diminutive) in a friendly way, of course the tone on how its said itll tell u if its out of racism or not. Idk why it is like that but it is culturally accepted. The same happen with someone that looks asian, people will call you chino and so on. Its not everyone who does that but most of population do.
It is always about the tone or how it is said than the words itself.
lol exactly this
Mate lol. That’s the internet for you
Even though it's clear that they used the word "ghetto" to denigrate the area where they are staying, people here are acting like there's some ambiguity. If someone came to their houses and described them as "ghetto", I bet they wouldn't be debating its historical significance in light of the Warsaw ghetto uprising.
And all being like “I say ghetto all the time and I don’t consider myself racist, therefore it’s not racist.”

Like… no you’re still fucking racist lmao. Take the L and improve yourself.
Because one is obviously offensive and not okay no matter where you’re from whereas the other is not necessarily race-based. Ghetto has always been a synonym for slum in my mind. Both are technically pejorative in nature so I guess it’d be more appropriate to just say “impoverished neighborhood” but no one except terminally online people under 25 are going to do that.
But how would they show off to their friends about their travels and their openness to other cultures if they stay home? They need that attention.
Some of the worst people I've met are people who travel a lot. I'm visibly East Asian and trust me when I say it's very socially acceptable for people to be racist to us too. Not to mention fetishism.
It’s a very bizarre thread
I think it unfortunately shows that a lot of people who travel feel like they don't have to behave when away from home. They let their true selves out because they know it's not going to damage any long term relationships. Just like people are far more likely to be assholes when they're sitting anonymously behind a screen on Reddit.
I’ve found average redditors to be exactly what Malcom x was talking about when it comes to white liberals especially with regards to those of African, Indian or Romani descent.
People take their character with them on their travel and if they are an AH, they stay one. I think some people are just incapable to be open to anything different or new and will complain or hate anything different ( food, people, culture).
It’s badddddd
Within traveling ‘communities’ it’s weirdly ok to be racist. I’m in the Iceland sub and people can be highly sinophobic and get very defensive about it. They’ll downvote you in you even mention racism happens in Iceland. There’s apparently a common joke amongst Icelanders/guides where they call Chinese people who die at sea “Chinese takeaway” and laugh about it. 

It’s crazy bc poc travel and ofc we’re gonna talk about it. Whether in general subs like this or travel subs specific to a certain country. But people always wanna defend it.
Yep. Crazy how quickly people go full mask off!
It’s bad isn’t it (the comments)
I've just left my unvarnished opinion. Let's see how the piranhas take to that one. 😏  
  
If there's one thing that brings certain people together, it's arguing that racism doesn't exist. 😂
Thank you !!! This is a very kind message and I appreciate you understanding the nuance of the experience and all the various forms the racism in the hostels takes ! I have been calling them out one by one. I’m defo not one to sit down and take it - never will be. Exhausted but we move comrade!
Hippies in elephant pants were some of the most blatantly racist people I ever met when I lived abroad
Totally agree. People think they're all enlightened because they went to some cheap spot abroad and 'found themselves' meanwhile, shock horror, they are actually racist as shit and just followed the bog standard typical backpacker route.
As a white person, I 100% believe OP's claims. It's the same type of white people who try to be "helpful" to disabled people by treating them like small children. Or complaining about non-Christians who don't want a Christmas trees because "Christmas is secular!" The moment someone has decided they're better than one group, it starts creeping into how they treat anyone different.
I'm visibly East Asian and I experienced racism in hostels in SEA out of all places. It doesn't help that the backpacking scene is so white, I noticed POC usually insta bonded with me in hostels. We know we are a rarity! Europeans and Aussies tend to be way more openly racist than Americans and it also doesn't help that they make the bulk of hostels in a lot of the world. The chance of coming across a rotten apple are just higher.
Absolutely. They get defensive because they see themselves as very enlightened for trying some foreign cuisine on their vacation.
Pai as in Thailand? Yeah the white bubble checks out for that place honestly.
I mean dude was French but the American guy was saying n*****
Negro/negros are the spanish words for black people, and he's in Mexico. 

We also use ghetto when a place looks a little bit dangerous or in bad condition, it's an english word used in spanish so as a spanish I have never related it with racism as for us it has nothing to do with black people.

Just clarifying some language confessions.
I'm Asian American and its always funny and sad how much nicer some people are when they hear my English and realise I'm American.
lol exactly. In this thread they say ignore it then they say well why didn’t you tell them to stop lol you can’t do anything right because they just want to be racist to you and feel entitled to do so.
That makes me so sad. I’m so sorry. North Africans have been the kindest and most hospitable people to me on my travels. It appals me that you aren’t treated as well as we are treated in North Africa. You deserve to be.
I don't think every white person is racist, but yes, there seems to be such a high number that it's aggravating.


  I'm white myself and I don't think I'm racist and I will speak up if I hear anything, but it is  totally frustrating the way these people just can't be taught that differences are not bad or inferior. They are AHs and they stay AHs. 
Yeah I’m so confused, everyone is immediately jumping towards invalidating this persons experience like 😭😭
Yeah I'm pretty shocked reading this. I agree that the term ghetto doesn't come across as racist to me personally, but other than that everything the op is talking about is undeniably straight up racist. All the non French speaking people making statements about what is and isn't racist in French are idiots too. Would the people in this subreddit really tell a black friend to stop being so "sensitive" at being upset at hearing the n word? No wonder op is hearing this shit if this is what Reddit's solo traveling crowd is like. I guess people show their true selves when they're away from the those in their everyday lives who would rightly judge them for it.
This sub has 4m members. Shouldn't it be stricter with that type of shit?
Haha yeah I’m going to Brazil next I’ve been twice before :) I love Brazil!
I absolutely agree with you about the subculture! I know it has the appearance of being all hippy, we love everyone, but it is SO not that. I wish it were more diverse, now that I'm travelling full time and I only speak English so far (learning Spanish), my friend group has become so white lol.

  
I'm a WOC and I get so sick of hearing these same mildly racist, sexist and homophobic conversations over and over wherever I go.
I mean these situations haven’t come from hanging with the people in hostels - I came here to visit a friend from Mexico. I spend my time hanging with the Mexican people but I still can’t help interacting with people in the hostels at some point lol
Solo backpacking really disabused me of my ideas of 'enlightened Europeans' lol. The French and Spanish are the most racist people in the world tbh. I lived in SEA for a while and got so tired of having to explain 52612947391 times a day that I'm American and speak English
One time when i was trying to book a hostel online, once i put my nationality, all the payment actions vanished so i couldn’t finish the transaction 💀
Thank you for reading the post properly and understanding what the point actually was!!!
It’s crazy
Agreed sis but what do we expect from redditors - the usual “oh well we can say n word cos blah blah” comments are expected. The sane ones from others r healing tho. I know im not crazy regardless of if a bunch of racists or idiots try and tell me I am lol
I'm literally reading these comments and people are straight up invalidating her experience as if she's not allowed to feel what she is feeling . Non black  Americans and non black people should not be using the N word or the word Negro no matter the context . 
Yes you are very correct about all of the top part.  Very strange justifications for all of the above but what does one expect from Reddit lol & yes I am well travelled and it will not ruin it for me - this has been a particularly foul trip
Thank you, context is everything and white supremacists want us to forget that.
Damn I never knew the history of the name “Berbers”. Good to know. Thanks!
Idk man depends where but I probs wouldn’t
I get the same thing in Latin America except it’s “chinita!” yelled at me constantly. Or in Europe “ni hao”
Sending love back!!!! I’m glad u get it!!!
I’m Latin American and was also confused by this. The word ghetto has no relation to skin color here. It’s just a word for “bad part of town”, and if I think about it’s origins I think first of Warsaw and Jewish people being force to a walled area
In North America, ghetto almost exclusively refers to racialized and economically depressed areas. In France too, ghetto has the same connotation. 
And negro would be a very normal word to a non native English speaker, especially if you're not chronically online and super fluent. Others throwing around the n-word lightly is definitely not okay, though.

Shame you're having a shit time, OP. Hope you can get with a good crowd for the days you still have left.
To an American it can be considered a racist term to avoid if you're not black.
Ghetto in the us is different. To me it’s less about race and more about if the person is ghetto or not but it’s lame to toss it around at someone for skin color b
I’m from Central Europe and the only people who use n-word are blatant racists. It certainly is considered offensive and the ones who use it very well know it.
I had an Australian guy pull the same shit to me when I was traveling - he said the n-word with an -er and claimed it wasn’t a big deal over there. I chewed him out and he acted like I was nuts. I have never met anyone from anywhere who used the n-word and wasn’t blatantly racist.
Merci ! ça a été très ennuyeux. Je dirais que ce fil est pire que l’auberge !
Yep
You clearly get it lol
I do want to mention that as an Australian, I've never heard of this term being used racially. Here it's occasionally used for poorer areas, but I didn't even know it had racial connotations
Rural areas in general are not great, and you probably visited more urban areas when traveling. And US areas like SoCal are less racist than anywhere else in the West
Gonna link up with some black friends in a few weeks !!
LOL 👀
Not surprised
might be time to reanalyze your use of that word now given that you have more historical context.
I’ve left that hostel now but honestly I feel like two of 3 hostels I’ve stayed at have had incidents like this and it’s an absolute wind up.
Ya totally. I mean it was expected but I can’t help that my friend is Mexican and I wanted to visit her 😂
If there’s a tension why are Americans visiting Mexico ?
I second this when it comes to the french or spanish. But if it were Americans, then you can sum it up to racism. Sorry for your troubles
Definitely. I’m Asian and growing up people would scream ni hao and random Asian things at me obviously meant to bully me. But when I go abroad and people scream CHINA, NI HAO, JACKIE CHAN at me. At first it took me a while to understand they don’t come from a place of harm like those ignorant kids I grew up with. They genuinely do not see Asian people and the only representation they have is in the media. Not saying it’s okay, just saying I developed an understanding that some people are ignorant and not everyone knows it’s not okay to scream at Asian people and assume they’re Chinese
This
Personally I avoid hostels now because people have become so inconsiderate, also about things like sharing spaces, avoiding noise etc.  - this did start before Covid though, I blame mobile phones.
> And surprise surprise - white Latinos tend to be richer than brown/black Latinos.

Yes, because of a thing called systemic racism.
Argentina is really poor right now though lol
agreed and i doubt those who were using that word were american. Europeans feel way more comfortable doing that for some reason ..
Why can’t any of you understand that the ghetto comment was not racist just because it was “directed at black people” but because it was directed at poorer browner Mexicans. Because all of you only feel you can feel offended about something that relates to your race. That’s not me
They attract many privileged kids, rich or not, who believe they are superior.  Not surprisingly many have racist views and think nothing of it.  

Especially today many travelers do it for social media and/or cheap digital nomadism.  It's not to immerse themselves in cultures.
French has the equivalent for both variants the N word, and you probably definitely wouldn’t want to use it in France in most contexts. Source: French
It is absolutely unacceptable for non-black people to use the n word in Europe I don’t know what you’re on about
You are the third person to bring up Jewish ghettoes as if they were something harmless and using the term to talk about a bad area in a city isn't incredibly insensitive and disrespectful.
I’m not American
Are you European?


I've found many Europeans have yet to discover that racism can manifest in many ways, big and small. You seem to have a very particular bar for what qualifies as racism. 


So particular that even using the n-word does not qualify lmao. And black face is just a fun costume I bet?
The word, "negro" was actually an acceptable, normal word not that long ago.  I'm not sure when it became something racist.  I guess that, "black" is ok, at least for now?
Depends who’s speaking and what their intention is. Some people will refer to any black neighborhood as “ghetto” and never use the word for a crappy white neighborhood.

I wouldn’t automatically assume anyone is racist using that word, but it can be dicey referring to an actual predominantly black neighborhood as “ghetto”, especially if the neighborhood isn’t actually shitty.
Then you're really uneducated, this is not a flex. 

[https://www.npr.org/2017/05/03/526655831/a-forgotten-history-of-how-the-u-s-government-segregated-america](https://www.npr.org/2017/05/03/526655831/a-forgotten-history-of-how-the-u-s-government-segregated-america)

[https://academic.oup.com/book/28402/chapter-abstract/228808784?redirectedFrom=fulltext&login=false](https://academic.oup.com/book/28402/chapter-abstract/228808784?redirectedFrom=fulltext&login=false)

[https://time.com/5684505/ghetto-word-history/](https://time.com/5684505/ghetto-word-history/)
Well hopefully today you’ve learned that ghetto can very much be used in a racist way.
I'm Canadian, same. I didn't think of it in a racist way. It's a way to describe a rough neighborhood, doesn't matter the colour of skin.
They’re not my mates so I have no clue. They’re people who have just been around.
Tfw you know Mandarin and understand what Chinese tourists are casually saying very loudly to each other about the locals.
I’m from London but my dad is Aa
When you’re white and in a poor place which is predominantly brown then it is sorry. Also is that all you could take from this? Just deflecting away from the N word to defend the use of the word ghetto? Lol
Well it can be. Hopefully you can adjust your feelings.
No way he doesn't know, it is practically the same word in French. And it is also extremely racist, and not okay to use, in French.
Wait until you learn that the Spanish word for black--negro--is pronounced differently than the racist term Negro.
It wasn’t a local…. Wait until you learn to read
Probably not seeing as there were a whole bunch of euro trash and gringos crawling around 😂 In my experience ✋🏻’s like to throw around the word ghetto very loosely if the local isn’t gentrified to shit. 


They’d be shaking at the knees if they were to venture into the true “ghetto” of Mexico.
The Mexicans have literally been fine. I didn’t mention them once. I said the French guy and the rest were Americans
these are kind words but slightly condescending to reduce racism to being a sensitive person. Pls reconsider 🫶🏽 you seem well meaning.
What good would stepping away do? Allowing people to be racist comfortably? Is this the kind of environment you want to foster?
Woah that fucking sucks. Begpackers in Vietnam were a plague
I'm East Asian and I've been to 70+ countries. Even lived in Australia and NZ for four years in total but the chance to come across with really disturbingly discriminative Aussies and Kiwis is much higher than other nationalities both within Australia/NZ and outside these countries. All these bad experiences now make me hesitant to be around with them, which you might think that's another form of discrimination/racism. But after being treated like a piece of sh!t so many times by them, whenever they say they are from Australia/NZ, inside me is like 'is he or she an okay person towards POC? Or another tw*t?' and take ages for me to put my mental guard down against them. Of course I talk in a friendly manner with them like any other people, but I just can't cast off my perception towards them. They say 'oh but every country has got idiots like that!' but the ratio is much higher. I also don't feel good whenever they post videos of my country and enjoying their time. I didn't have a good time in their counties, and it's just not fair.
I laugh inside whenever they say New Zealanders are not racist. Im an Asian Kiwi. Teenagers and young adults are the worst, it’s no excuse that they are young and dumb. There’s a long way for NZ to say that it’s not racist. But then again, i love my country Aotearoa (NZ). I solo travel and literally travel solo, at accommodation and hostel people don’t know im Kiwi, and whenever there are Kiwis and Aussies they will always make me feel that its an exclusive all white group, but whenever i hear any racist remarks, i don’t hesitate to call their attention.
As an Australian this is really disappointing but not surprising. Our history of oppression and violence continues to play out at home too.
Aussie and Kiwis are the worst. They still think it is acceptable to call anyone brown Paki. 
Remind them they're poor where they live full time
A certain percentage of people always has been and always will be AHs, xenophobes and racists and it seems that education can't change that.


And when these people travel they bring their character with them. They are not able to take anything in our be open to new cultures. 


My daughter went in a class trip to the UK recently ( age 17-19) and about 20-30% of the kids didn't know anything about the local food and complained about it because it was different to what they know, weren't interested in any sights and all they did was spent their free time either at Starbucks or shopping. 


They left the shakespeare play half way through to go to do more shopping. 


I think it is impossible for them to take in new things, new foods, culture, people, differences, they just don't have the ability and are too stupid.
The depthsbof their own asses! Hahaha i like that one
[removed]
They were chomping at the bit to attack you without even reading it properly lol
Thank you!
The clowns bringing up the history of the word ghetto are such nerds man, of the worst type; pseudo intellectuals.
The etymology of "denigrate" is also telling.  It pretty much literally means "to blacken."
Thank you!
Out of the loop, why is ghetto considered racist?
I dont care about that I just mean everyone in here was attacking them about that while completely ignoring the 100% racist stuff lmao
With that distinction, you could ask yourself why people rushed to say 'you're wrong' instead of 'you're right'. If they read it and thought, "N-word? Woah that's bad" and also thought, "ghetto? That may not be bad", why did they only type the latter?
Especially in Europe - I spent 3 months backpacking there (am Asian American) and experienced more racism in those three months than I had in pretty much my entire life in America up to that point
The master's tools will never dismantle his house. Watch them invalidate poc experiences so you can't have any discourse 😂

This sub is crazy sometimes

I made a comment about asian minorities being ignored in hostels and being called chino on the streets a few months ago and post got deleted. Mods lost their god damn minds
White liberals are also super shitty and racist to East Asians too. They often justify it a lot and even pit other POC against us as well. I can see through their divide and conquer mentality.
For real. Have a great rest of your trip and try to forget about these weirdos.
Christ alive that is disgusting.
yes
Coming into this way too late, but these comments read like a "Not All Men" for white supremacists.

Hang in there, OP.
Australian poc here, I’m so sorry.

I live in Japan now and I was shocked and surprised to consider that I prefer the discrimination here than in Australia 

Which absolutely triggers a very particular type of person if I mention it
Just reading your comments on this thread is making me realise that me and you will insta bond if we ever meet in a hostel. I myself have bonded with so many non west Europeans since we were getting similar treatment 😄
Revoke his passport immediately
Hi - French black woman here. Was the French guy white ? Because negro in French is the n-word with an a. But it has never been used as a racial slur, more like “bro”. The racial slur would be nègre (which is the n-word with the hard r). 

Until a couple years ago literally everyone was saying it because it was seen as a cool word (like non black people will call their black friend negro, which was the equivalent of “bro”). Even non-black rapper would say negro and no one would bat an eye. 

However, now non black people know they shouldn’t say it but if he was in his late 20’s / 30’s, it honestly doesn’t surprise if he still uses it (but that is definitely  racism as he should be aware by now that it is inappropriate).
Lazy racists always want you to do the work for them because thinking new thoughts makes their heads hurt
The thing is that for most racists telling them to stop won't work. They are stupid hateful AHs and they will not change their character on their travels. 
Don't take this as an attack on you personally, but the way they're treated in these tourist destinations by people who usually are dependent on tourism for their livelihood is what gives them that sense of superiority vis-à-vis everyone from these countries.
I’m shook. I would have thought the people here would be less ignorant. I guess travelling is a privilege and attracts certain types.
It's classist AF though and in every former Colonial country, class and race are still intertwined which is why it rankles.
I mean you could probably understand why OP finds it racist. Imagine people using a term that describes where your people live to call something rundown/dirty, etc
Ironically right after reading your posts & writing this comment I went out last night on Vietnam’s backpacker street and had this racist white traveler cross examining me in the club about HOW I can be “my skin color” and American because all “REAL Americans” are white 🤦🏽‍♀️🤦🏽‍♀️🤦🏽‍♀️ I’m like all REAL Americans are indigenous brown people but go off 👏🏽👏🏽👏🏽 I told him to please read a basic book about world history and slavery and he said “but why would I do that when I can ask YOU!” Lmaooo. I’m so tired. Needless to say I’m going back to China where the traveler community is older and so well-traveled or back to South America bc I’m tired!! The European immature but thinks theyre “worldly” backpacker community exhausts my spirit 🫠🫠🫠
The whole hippy thing is often just an act used by guys to get paid, as soon as the girls disappear they drop the act
Yep super annoying. I have this problem a lot more with Western tourists in non Western places. It really brings out the worst. 
The only time I’ve ever been part of a “GO BACK TO YOUR COUNTRY” verbal war was in barcelona. Still love Spain, it’s a lovely country, but there’s something to be said about the undercurrents of racism there lol. Way more socially acceptable to say things like this than America where you’d get instant flamed
[deleted]
And what’s crazier to me is they are literally reading the post and automatically assuming you’re American. Like how tf did we get in this 😭😭
I’m sorry you experienced all of that on her travels. As black women we experience a nuanced solo traveling experience that the average traveler will never understand. Nobody should be subjected to hearing racist language from anyone idgaf what anyone in these comments say
Economically depressed, sure, but I wouldn’t agree that it has an exclusively racial connotation.
[deleted]
In French it’s an offensive and racially charged term too
Not in French. Black in French is noir. They meant to say the racist word. 
[removed]
I’m American Black. Ghetto is not racist and if you consider the word Ghetto to be synonymous with Black people you’re telling on yourself. Why OP a French person got offended at hearing ghetto is beyond me. I use ghetto to describe ghetto stuff not people.
Ironically 'lame' is often seen as offensive
Good to know. I was fucking floored and no one else besides his friend said anything.
Australian Indian here. 

There’s a lot of casual racism in Australia and a lot of our jokes also centre around casual racism, stereotypes. These kind of racist jokes were the norm in school and University for us millennials at least and even us POC indulged in them. 

However, despite that, at this point in time anyone whose even a little cultured, aware and not racist recognises this part of Australian culture and would atleast NOT make those kind of jokes to randoms or overseas. Specially the n-word, that’s been out of use for a long time and wasn’t even used casually as a joke ever. 

Aussies who defend this kind of stuff when overseas are definitely wankers.
Ah ça y'a du con de competition ici aussi ... surement un élevage pas loin !
That’s not our fault u haven’t educated urself
I’m gonna assume that’s a yes 😂 I overheard some of the convo/ you calling out that dude as I was getting ready to leave the next morning, and I know there was a French guy at some point earlier in the week chatting shit. Anyways I’m sorry you’ve had this experience, not quite sure what possesses people to be honest, I hope it’s bad luck, that hostel was also pretty American heavy I feel that could play a part, I hope it gets better for you maybe switch up to bigger hostels, I find there’s usually a more diverse crowd. I’d also add that Mexico City hostels and big city hostels tend to attract a lot of inexperienced and frankly close minded travellers / tourists, towns and cities on the backpacker route tend to attract more open minded people in my opinion, I’ve not had an at all comparable experience to you coz I’m a white, European dude but in general I’ve found people in hostels on the backpacker trail more open minded and frankly just less stupid. Mexico also in general just attracts a lot of first time / casual travellers from what I’ve seen, I think this is pretty evident in the way people have acted at times compared to other Latin American countries.
The term "ghetto" originated in Venice, Italy in 1516 to describe the area where Jewish people were required to live It has, as far as I am aware not been associated with black people in Europe. People should stop using it because it’s anti-Semitic 

In the US it is a slang term for poor black neighbourhoods, but again not everywhere

NY calls its lower east side a ghetto because of the Jewish population there and NOT because of the colour of its occupants. 
Hahaha ok right but if some Italian guy came up and screamed Jackie Chan in your face I think it might still be ok to sock him in the neck
I mean this is another reason I’m highlighting the use of the word ghetto was racist
I mean this is another reason I’m highlighting the use of the word ghetto was racist
That’s undeniable.

But if preferring my interactions with white Latinos because of their class-determined lower levels of ignorance makes me contribute to systemic racism, so be it. I’m contributing to systemic racism. 

I can only speak for my experiences, and the fact is I’ve had more positive interactions with white Latinos than brown/Black Latinos. Still met many lovely people from all backgrounds, but when looking at this topic of casual racism / ignorance, I’ve only had it from POC. It’s sad but in my case, it’s true.
Yeah my Italian friend tried saying “putanna” (bitch) is just as bad to say to a woman (bc I thought it meant something else and said it to a girl jokingly whoops) as the n word is to us and I was like it’s fsure not lol
It is a bad word imo. it doesn't have to be racist but it could be
Downvoted because you aren’t American??? This is the ugliest thread I’ve seen. Sorry OP
I'm European, I've travelled all over Europe. I can only speak for myself. 

I don't know if the comments in the thread are deliberately obtuse or if they can't fathom racism being displayed in plain sight. It happens. I'm really sorry for what you're going through!

Europeans (not all, but in general) know the difference between the slang and the "hard r," in hip hop music. It sort of comes with being a hip hop fan. Europeans that speak English can understand the meaning of words.. That being said, there are nuances and cultural differences at play. Ghetto is not necessarily negative, but literally just a way to describe an area. I think you're being overly alert, and I don't blame you. It must be very tiring. 

Edit: to add that yes, absolutely in this case ghetto was used in a negative way, op is not being paronaid.


When travelling, most of the people you meet are amazing. Travelling has made me realise that, dare I say, most people are kind and wonderful. I hope you have some positive experiences as well and I hope you find some nice people in your hostel.
I'm *howling* right now
[removed]
Ah no no, I mean Mate as in people who are in your hostel. Like “classmate” for people from your classroom (even non friends). Miscommunication.

And you can make out from their vibe
Let's not even get started on Russia Ukraine and various other parts of eastern Europe. 
And the cast cultures still hanging over south Asia, and lingering heavily in the middle east and Arab countries. 
Imagine the outcry in china if they took a single non Han refugee from anywhere. I'm white and have been referred to as watermelon head for an entire week in one county of western china. 'she gua tou' , point and laugh at my long nose etc , give me wrong directions on purpose.
Some villages I cycled through I would cover up my skin on entry to go unnoticed through the police checkpoint, the locals would still call the police on me but it would give me enough time to get supplies before being kicked back out in to the dessert. Always under strict instructions not to talk or look at the Muslim people incase I was a journalist exposing the systematic dismantling of their culture by the han , who were 'at war' with the local ethnicities according to them. 
Apparently many Pakistanis I've spoke to in the UK would love to see American hedgemony be dismantled and given to the Chinese. Oh dear, what a wild world. Hold on tight everyone.
Either way. Good luck out there. Hope your trip gets better. Keep your head up!
Majority of people on this sub are white who have mimicked these behaviours. They are getting defensive because you’ve described actions they’ve partook in.
[deleted]
I mean he defo knew cos he immediately was like oh sorry I’m not meant to say that - Noir is black in French - also he’s fluent in English like?
Funniest thing is he is Mexican. He absolutely should know the difference.

I’m a fourth language learner of a Spanish speaker as an Indian and I fucking know the difference. I would never confuse the two. And OP literally speaks Spanish just like the guy you responded to.
It’s amazing how people have missed your points completely. Though to be fair I didn’t catch the point of Mexicans being fine until I re-read the title 

But if you can, edit the post to add the fact that it was mainly non white Americans using the word, that’ll clarify things.
I've been in Vietnam for work for a few years. I fucking hate the backpackers that come here
Sorry for my ignorance but what is a begpacker?
Yeah, my ex (British) started busking in Hanoi after we broke up (we met in Vietnam originally when we were both teachers there), it was really cringe and embarrassing. Like, you can just play music without asking for money, yeesh
Asian and lived in NZ for 2 yrs. Kiwis love talking about racism in Australia and the US but will get extremely defensive and gaslighty when confronted about racism in NZ.
As a white Kiwi I'm sad too. But also not surprised. I've lived in Canada for over 20 years now and  when I talk to my friends at home I'm often shocked by the casual racism. My 80-something parents are terrible :-(
I lived in NZ for 7 years.  Not once heard of any kiwi referring to a brown person as a Paki.
Thats a brit term, have never heard any Aussie or Kiwi use the term.
That’s absolutely not true.
I thought that was Brit thing? I’m in NZ, never heard a Kiwi use that, only Brits
No fr. It’s a money saving thing for me lol so I can travel for longer
They love telling black ppl it’s not racism
From the locals, the other travellers or both?
Wait whaaaat? Why did they delete it?!!!
Esp Chinese people, particularly since 2020/covid. And they find all these ways to try to justify their hatred as reasonable.
Mainland Chinese mainly, because the PRC resists their dominion
Nice username
> They often justify it a lot and even pit other POC against us as well. 


 Maybe I'm in California, but never seen that.  Any tension with Asians and other groups tends to have nothing to do with "white people".


Generally, the liberal areas are the most harmonic.  Indian, East Asian, white people and various combinations thereof all hang out together happily
It really is. I was threatened by the mod there that I’d be banned if I kept calling it racist, and deleted my comments about it, because Icelanders “have their own customs and their own perceptions of race that differs from American”
Literally infuriating.
Yeah, we don't want him back.
He’s a white 23/24 year old
No offence taken at all. I’m from a country whose main source of income is tourism and is the poorest in our region. It’s sad that they think that our historic and traditional hospitality is some sort of desperation or weakness. Rather than feel superior they should learn from it and take these lessons back to their home country.
Nah it’s the exact opposite!
Period
Fair enough! Certainly not a word I would use to describe a place I was travelling but I guess I wouldn't have thought much hearing it. Something for me to keep in mind!
Yeah definitely given me something to think about!  I just live in a country where the term isn't particularly used. It does come across as classist to me and I wouldn't use it to describe somewhere I was traveling, but I guess didn't have the racial connection to me initially. Regardless, people in the comments latching onto that as an example of why op is "oversensitive" is ridiculous when they explained some pretty blatant racism they'd been seeing.
Wait. Did OP say he lives in the ghetto?  Not all black peoples live in the ghetto. I’m non American black and I didn’t know ghetto was a slur.
God bless you. You must have felt so tired !!!! Solidarity to you man I’m sick of this shit
Crazy. What country was this white guy from? I have a suspicion that a lot of European countries don’t teach about their role in the trans Atlantic slave trade and thus their countries role in global white supremacy. 

Like I’ve argued with some dude from Portugal about this and im like bro Portugal was the very first country to  enslave Africans and kidnap them to the Americas 🤦🏿‍♂️
Lots of people on Reddit act like Europeans can do no wrong. I was like 20 years old and had never been outside of the US before, so yeah I was part of that group too lol
I mean yeah idk. I grew up in ldn but my dad is AA
On Reddit everyone assumes you're American because half of Reddit is American.
Agreed girl. But we know the truth & they’re in denial 👎🏽
I mean, it might. The language we use carries connotations that we don't intend or realize all the time.  

In the US context at least, the word ghetto came to be primarily used to describe lower income black urban neighborhoods in the mid 20th century and then in the late 20th century started to be applied more broadly to cultural trends associated with lower income African Americans, but not trends associated with lower income white Americans.  If you say your white friend sagging his pants a ton is being ghetto you might not intend it as a racial thing but what you are basically saying is "you are dressing like a lower income urban black way."
[deleted]
[deleted]
It has a racist connotation historically, just like Nig###, Ki ke, Nazi to a German person, chi&k to an Asian person, etc.
It does if you’re American, even if you don’t realize it.
In portuguese it is the polite word , preto (black) would be aggressive. :x languages can be so confusing :/
Wasn't aware that it would be in French, too.
We very well  know that. 

But words can have different connotations in different cultures. In the US, the word ghetto definitely can have a racist connotation if you're not black. I accept it doesn't mean that elsewhere. It does here, and that's what OP seems to be reacting to based on their lived experience. I am sure there are words and phrases in your culture and nation that would sound innocuous to Americans that'd be incredibly offensive to you.
LOL
I'm hardly going to learn what every single word means in every single country, you're being completely unrealistic.
Have you considered politely letting people know that where you're from that considered unfavourable and you feel uncomfortable hearing it? I'd have apologised and considered it a lesson learned. But you're here just attacking with fire...
Thank you!!!
Looks like now you've learned multiple reasons why you should drop that word.
So Jackie chan is ok to sock them in the neck but hearing people talk about calling black people the n word is overly sensitive … okay
Actually ive been to Italy, they completely avoid me 😅
It’s crazy on here !!!!
Yeah, holy shit. This place is ugly. I don't know why I assumed this sub would be safe and open-minded.
>Ghetto is not necessarily negative, but literally just a way to describe an area.

While I can see this point, OP described them calling an area a ghetto combined with laughing at poor people for being poor. That is crappy behaviour whether it's racist or not.

Tourists that engage in poverty porn are the worst.
Do you actually know what the n word is? Not the other variantions? 

Because it is offensive to all black people worldwide.
Seriously? It’s condescending, racist and ignorant. And not just to Americans in America. Who is using this word? What’s the definition other than the reference to African Americans? And, yes, context. Why is someone in the hostel using that word in front of a black person? I’m genuinely curious. Take a trip to South Africa and tell me it’s context that’s important.
You sound stupid
Ah I feel ya. I don’t know honestly. Not enough interaction to tell
1000000000%
Thank you, I am surprised how few people here actually know its history.
Sure
Probably because before OP re-edited the whole thing to sounds different it said 'Mexican Hostels' and mentioned one French guy
Feels like the worst of Australia ends up in SEA in a similar way to the worst of Britain ends up in Spain. 
A white (or westerner) backpacker who literally BEGS on the streets in SEA. There's a small number who at least have the decency to sell shitty artisan jewelry, but the rest just sit down on their asses with a sign that says "Need money to go back home". or something along the lines. 

Bullshit.
Omg so cringeee. Sorry to hear that lol
Absolutely not a common term in NZ. At all.
Guess it never happened then!  good to know
Yeah, I’ve lived in NZ for 26 years and UK for 6 years. Never heard that word once in NZ but have heard it a couple of times in the UK.
I knew it would be bad going in,,

All I can say is it’s not in your head, the world is far more racist and mean than people want to admit on the internet. Have teenage euros running through hotel halls calling my friend’s coworker monkey n* and the hotel just lets it slide because it’s a big group.

I’m sorry you’re going through this shit. Whether you tell em to fuck off, put on headphones, complain to management with threats of reviews if it’s not taken care of - it all sounds emotionally exhaustive.

Audiobooks and ASMR are my go to reco’s but get away from those assholes in the easiest way for your peace of mind - chances are racist are generally piece of shit people that conversations are the emotional equivalent of chewing nails for breakfast.

Grab a packet of those lime candy peanuts from Oxxo for me!!
fr, not even black but also a minority. Americans especially loveee justifying slight racism..
Omg. I am a white woman and I get so pissed sometimes that I want to burn something down. “It’s not sexist” “let’s take all your rights away”. Throughout the last several years, I have reflected on my life and have questioned whether or not I would be able to survive being a woman *and* a minority. I’m at my breaking point already. I cannot tell you how many other white women I know who feel the same way about women’s rights, but are somehow also RACIST AS FUCK….or even just slightly racist. I don’t get it. 

More power to you, OP!  It’s tough to deal with asshats. Keep your head on straight and keep being awesome.
No idea, I tried searching my history and couldn't find it

Original post was from an Asian American  guy saying he was constantly excluded from conversation at hostels
That sounds like something the admins might be able to do something about, if they ever bother with it.
Yeah he should definitely know better ! I’m sure he doesn’t even say this word in France because tbh, black people don’t even use it that much ! Cringy
Sounds about white lol
I think it's because in Europe, there isn't such an extreme divide between rough areas and race as America has. You refer to the shitty parts of town as a ghetto in Europe, whereas in America it may refer to an entire area inhabited by blacks.

I heard the same for the word gypsy. In Europe, it either refers to people with wonderlust or the Roma culture highly associated with gangs. It's apparently the same level of slur as the n word in Canada.

The n word is universally considered an extreme form of slur. I don't think there are any cultural context that get away with this one.
Modern day colonization is having to take on the emotional labor of educating white people about our trauma at all times because they don’t want to read basic history books. It’s too much work for them 🤧🤧🤧😵‍💫🫠
Literally Portugal kidnapped the MOST slaves which is why Brazil has the biggest black population in the Americas. Whew chile. 

This guy ironically was from Georgia. Clearly just clueless but also disrespectful in his approach and didn’t value me enough as a person to think “hmm maybe she doesn’t want to take on the emotional labor of explaining today” 🤦🏽‍♀️ just blatant disregard and selfishness which is not new from those in Europe unfortunately.
Odd
Your assumption that a ghetto must be related to black communities is racist. 


There are medival ghettos in almost all European cities and there are very few to no black ghettos there.


The fact that you think "black" when you hear "ghetto" is your prejudice and not related to the term.


In that sense it's not like retarded. It's more like a limp. You think handicapped when you hear limp, but the person may just be referring to a limping person
It’s not, though. Your automatic assumption that ghetto has something to do with being black is racist, however. 

The word ghetto has been used and has context that is not related to how it’s used in America. The Warsaw Ghetto is a good example, like another user in this thread mentioned. 

It’s also very VERY recent that people decided that ghetto is a racist term. Can it be used to express racism? Absolutely. But so can a lot of words. That does not make the word itself racist. Context matters.
Yes!
You mean antisemitic not racist in that case. The original use was almost exclusively for Jewish ghettos?
[deleted]
Different, but not really confusing.
[deleted]
Can i also add good for you for calling him out, I can’t imagine how exhausting and infuriating that must be but I think you did the right thing
Lol they make it seem like they want to use it because it offends so many different people.
Probably afraid that you would sock them :D
Absolutely, I didn't mean that to come off as dismissive. It's shitty.
Btw side note, how many languages do you speak? You said you’re British but also speak French and Spanish!
You literally can’t change titles
I do not think you can edit titles, only the text.

And I saw this post when it was at 0 likes and 0 comments and the title already mentioned the locals were fine
The way my country sends our worst to Cancun haha
As a European-American, I felt the same way when I was in SEA. My worst memory, however, was of Brits standing in front of a bar in Koh Phi Phi in broad daylight flashing their dicks. I’ve seen Americans misbehave overseas but Europeans (Yeah UK included) are the worst. Europeans are also so so racist, especially Nordic Euros.
Unfortunately, a lot of less educated and culturally inexperienced Aussies (some of whom are on government benefits - yes you can save enough as an unemployed person to travel internationally) travel to these cheaper destinations and treat the place like their playground. 

But for the most part Aussies are good tourists.
what leads someone to do something so insane lmao
The oxxo comment warmed my heart haha! Thank you so much for your words. It is very good to see some people with sanity on this thread. You get it, we get it, they don’t get it and never have.
POCs are "sensitive" when they call out racism.

Whites do it?  = social justice warriors.

This sub is largely populated by the former, hence OP's calling out their demo triggers defensiveness and gaslighting.

Almost 50 POC here; tale as old as time.
Europeans and Aussies are worse lol
Honestly it is notttt an easy experience and definitely not for the weak but doing my best not to go completely grey !!
Jesus I’m not even surprised. I think I’ve concluded here that all of them have said the same shit now they’re feeling targeted
Yikes. That’s weird. If they want a sub for Traveling with a Colonialist Lens, just call it that. lol
What kind of admins? I looked a bit into it but wasn’t sure if Reddit admits would do anything , but maybe I wasn’t looking in the right places
It’s too much for them cos they don’t have to care. None of this stuff is part of their identity so they blow it off like it’s irrelevant. It sick
Probably not something you’ve noticed but it’s absolutely true. 9/10 Americans ask country specific things without specifying where they’re from
Then why are there many people in America, especially the South, that call black people "ghetto"? Even in California, poor black people in Los Angeles are called ghetto.
I literally spoke to all of them about it? Who said sulking in a corner except you?
Thank you!!! Yeah I was soooo worn out after that because It felt like if I didn’t say something (even though many people were like wtf) nobody was going to and I couldn’t just act like it was fine I felt like I was going to set alight 🥲
4
It literally never said Mexican hostels anywhere lmaoooo
I agree. Most aussies I met there were sound, all aussies I've met in Europe have been great. 
I’ve met a shocking amount lot of europeans who like to say americans are too sensitive then say inflammatory shit to offend us and say “hey look you’re offended I was right!” Like no shit sherlock you’re throwing slurs.
"Colonialist travel", make the world great again
[deleted]
What’s the fourth if you don’t mind me asking
Or maybe we can understand what not to say to someone, if it insults them, and respect that. A lot of people lack any sense of humanity these days. Thinking before speaking should be simple enough.
Portuguese
I’m not entirely fluent in all - fluent in French tho but comfortable in All.
Maravilloso, que disfrutes el resto de tua vacaciones en México.
Muchas gracias !!
