⚠️Beware of the scam posts on here
I just noticed a wave of posts on here that are obvious scammers. Please don't fall for them.

The obvious signs are different (and new) accounts saying they are females in their 20s wanting "more" for a start that is a rule breaker on here. Also look at their profile. If they are on different local subreddits and say they are from there.

So unless you want to tease and waste their time. Don't contact them and most importantly don't send them money, personal details or even intimate photos as they can be used to blackmail you.

Please be careful and you can try to report them if the reporting system wasn't a waste of time.
Hey, u/StewFisher! 

Say hello and add a friendly comment to another user's post on the sub while you wait for someone to comment on your post! You'll make more new friends that way! You're also more than welcome to [join our official Discord](https://discord.com/invite/9UuDpwBftk) and [Reddit chat channel](https://www.reddit.com/r/MakeNewFriendsHere/comments/13m77dt/join_the_official_rmakenewfriendshere_chat) to find friends!

As a reminder, we strongly recommend:

When someone contacts you, **review their profile** before responding. 

Help us make this a better community by becoming familiar with the [rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/MakeNewFriendsHere/about/rules/).

Report any suspicious users to the mods of this subreddit using Modmail [here](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose/?to=/r/MakeNewFriendsHere) or Reddit site admins [here](https://www.reddit.com/report). **All reports to Modmail should include evidence such as screenshots or any other relevant information.**

Thanks!


*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/MakeNewFriendsHere) if you have any questions or concerns.*
Also all of them cycle through the exact same sentences. One of them is something like "I am from United States if that matters LOL. Well.. I am bored these days." It always has the same punctuation and everything. There's another line about being a business major and managing a shop on the side. And of course, "I don't care if our hobbies match, let's go ahead and have some fun!" They really are very obvious. It actually gives me the creeps, just a little. Imagine being in a crowd of people and suddenly noticing 12 of them saying the exact same thing at the exact same time. Or meeting someone new, and then suddenly they're reciting the same sentences word for word. It's like a glitch in the matrix. That's how it feels to scroll through these subreddits when the wave of bots hits.
Always reverse image search photos they sent
Yup just happened to me couple days ago
Or do a grabify link to them find out where the really come from
AND IF U ARE ONE OF THOSE PPL THAT WANNA BELIEVE THEM JUST USE GOOGLE REVERSE IMAGE SEARCH.

its a shame how many ppl srsly wanted to chat with a profile with pictures of an onlyfans girl....
well you got a point to be honest you shouldn't really trust anyone on here most of the time, but over that safety comes first but Me... I... pretty much ignore all of them
Dude just say cat fish
[deleted]
Who sends cash to a stranger?Idiot
Oh Lordy Lordy lord
In other breaking news…

Water is wet
[deleted]
So, real. I noticed that a lot too.
oop
Obvious signs are that they are in business school and as hobbies they have golf, cooking, traveling…
Agree 👍 
Be careful
Whenever I get talking to anyone new , I always run theor pics through Google search and then Tineye , sometimes Google don't always find the image.
Then I go and play along with them to find out what way they're going to ask for money petrol for car, Internet bill,food,medical things .
Signs to look out for are
1, not long into the conversation they want you to go to another app to talk.
2, they give every excuse not to video call.
3, the way they talk is also a give away with the over use of the word 'dear' and the use of the word 'am' .
It’s always sus when the account gives you an nsfw warning but there’s no posts on there account🤣
Good pointer on the same punctuation and grammar. This is a very, while obvious, hard technique to think of sometimes in an investigation. Even "Hello !!" The space between the end of the word and sentence mechanics are good for a signature of sorts if that makes sense. Good eye dude!
ive been saying i dont care if we have common interests not realizing it comes off this way 😭
Then they all take out a monocle and put it on their right eye.
[deleted]
"My name is Joo Dee."
Bethesda game dialogue be like... Just like that lol.
""Patrolling the Mojave Almost Makes You Wish For a Nuclear Winter..."
My friend was starting a relationship with a girl he met online. Never video called (always had a excuse) &  did send pic's though.
He reverse image her 3 photos came back to a porn thing. Her number ( she said only call it between hours) came back to a 70 year old woman.
[removed]
How do you do this?
Similar to my reply to another commenter, that's often the unfortunate scenario we have to deal with.   
If you click with someone, try to move past Reddit chat onto Discord for example. Makes it easier to keep in touch.  
Then again, many don't post to look for genuine, long-lasting connections. 

Keep searching - I'm sure you'll find someone worth your time and effort!
Yeah don't piggyback off others posts warning about scamming with desperate pleas. Create your own posts.
Don't be a smartarse. There was people on here actually replying to the scammer posts. There are people who are vulnerable and can easily fall for it especially if they are lonely.
As a long-time user of this subreddit, that is unfortunately very common. They could have found someone else, it could be a fake post - myriad of reasons. But keep searching, trust me you will find meaningful connections!
This is irrelevant to my post.
One thing I've also noticed their bio all have the same Snapchat username.
It doesn't. Everyone says that. It's just that these bots will use the *exact* sentence in almost every post. You are free to keep saying it your way.
That’s because there’s a hierarchy, what one guy will make the contact available with commentary sometime as you can tell it was translated it just doesn’t sound right then they make big lists and I saw onto the under link. Is there a protégés they go out and make all the accounts, just like any other office you see a bunch of Dyson people there’s shifts you’ll notice the same person interested in you at the same time of day and then all the sudden they’re gone until the same exact time the next day or the following break it up a little bit Then there’s the watches are constantly scanning to see whose IP addresses are active. Anybody who approaches me directly is not only suspicious. They are 100% scumbags. Nobody approaches me directly who doesn’t know me nobody will do that if anything there will be conflict or accusation or insult because they didn’t like what you said that would be the only motivation to actually say something to you And don’t tell the girls they’re hot because they’re not girls they’re guys I don’t care about followers. I’m not trying to be a celebrity but these people are obsessed with free money playing on their phones. I’m an influencer I’m Contin creator. No you’re just another part of the drones that are keeping everybody else occupied on the bull crap It’s hard to stop because it’s literally addicting designed that way it’s the apps themselves that actually have these offices with these people who do this to us and you’re funny how you get that phone number that phone call from your Gmail the Verizon subscriber you’ve called cannot be reached at this time I have Verizon how come it’s always you giving these motherfuckers the numbers .
You can drop the pictures into Google search bar. If your on your cellphone most have a option in gallery to search the web for that image.
Go be that Reddit hero!
22F - To those under 18, please stay within your age bracket 🖤
Title says it all.

I welcome everybody, but it makes me uncomfortable the amount of children/teenagers who have messaged me.

Please be safe and interact with people your own ages. Don’t force yourselves to grow up.

That’s it.🖤

EDIT - I appreciate everyone who has messaged me, but I’m unable to keep up with it. Please put your energy into other people. Im keeping this up as I do believe it’s important to get across.
Hey, u/Sad-Leek9381! 

Say hello and add a friendly comment to another user's post on the sub while you wait for someone to comment on your post! You'll make more new friends that way! You're also more than welcome to [join our official Discord](https://discord.com/invite/9UuDpwBftk) and [Reddit chat channel](https://www.reddit.com/r/MakeNewFriendsHere/comments/13m77dt/join_the_official_rmakenewfriendshere_chat) to find friends!

As a reminder, we strongly recommend:

When someone contacts you, **review their profile** before responding. 

Help us make this a better community by becoming familiar with the [rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/MakeNewFriendsHere/about/rules/).

Report any suspicious users to the mods of this subreddit using Modmail [here](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose/?to=/r/MakeNewFriendsHere) or Reddit site admins [here](https://www.reddit.com/report). **All reports to Modmail should include evidence such as screenshots or any other relevant information.**

Thanks!


*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/MakeNewFriendsHere) if you have any questions or concerns.*
So glad someone posted this. Lots of minors post “open to any ages” but there’s a lot of people who are looking to take advantage of people not make friends.
I’m 5 years old. So I shouldn’t message you even though I want to be friends? Just triple checking before I start finger painting.
That's a nice message for them.
99M You are too young to me Get Older Damn!
And to those over 18… please stop talking to children, you fucking weirdos.
M 26 I identify as a potato
Teens, and I mean this in an absolutely non-condescending manner, but when you chat with people who are strangers + adults, especially online, it puts both you and them at a lot of risks. Digital footprints don't vanish easily, and even the most innocent human being can be convicted of being something he or she isn't if there's 'evidence' in the form of completely normal conversations with someone underage. Coz there ARE creeps who do that, so ya.
Thank you for posting this, I’ve seen this too much and it’s really uncomfortable
24M - good you did that! 
I didn’t use any social media till 18. 
But these days… all the kids are everywhere… 
I see 14 year old kid has tinder profile and claims to 20😂
wait do people really make friends on here cuz I’m done
Falls into "stay in your lane."
Damn straight! Well said!!!
100% it’s a safety thing. I generally avoid people under 20, not because I don’t think they’re interesting people, I’m sure they are, but it feels weird to have an online friendship with someone so much younger. 16 year old me would have disagreed, but 16 year old me was an idiot. 16 year old me also thought she was so very smart and would be able to spot a creep or a bad situation, and I will reiterate, 16 year old me was an idiot. But that’s fine, 16 year olds aren’t meant to be jaded and looking for red flags all the time, it’s the adults job to make sure they are safe and informed.
Genuinely live your youth. You're gonna miss that after the fact it's gone.
the amount of 19-25 year olds here who are fine with 18 year olds but not 16-17 year olds are weird. there is not much of a maturity difference between an 18 and 16 year old. it seems like they're just looking for nsfw chats which isnt welcome here. i would understand more if they said 21 or 20+
Hi all
Does 40 work? That's above 18 for sure
Honesty, I’m 16 and I enjoy talking to people older than me, mainly bc most people my age only care about sex, drugs and other shit. The older the people I have conversations with, the more I’m able to talk about stuff that I wanna talk about that the average person my age would ignore bc it’s not sex or drugs.
I am 60 year old Newfie lady ..love to chat
YES SIR OR MA'AM
I'm 19
Reddit is no place for humans let alone children. We should encourage them to take breaks from social media and Harry Potter
Thanks,I'm a father of 2 girls and if
Yo anyone down to be friends?
I prob don’t make many friends with it, but I disagree with you.

Since my teenage years I’ve been more interested in guys older than me, simply because they seemed to be interested in the same weird things than I am, guys my age where just boring and I didn’t knew what to do with them.

It didn’t changed until my mid twenties. I don’t like staying in my age bracket, I just don’t connect with people my age. And if it feels wrong you shouldn’t force yourself into that. 

I understand that adults can take advantage of younger people but it mustn’t be the case, I made many great friends who are older and younger than me (I’m 29). As long as everyone is happy I see no problem with that. 
26 male
I’m 17M who turns 18 in a few months.. where the hell would I fit?? Lmao there’s no tags for 17 year olds for some reason. I just message people who mention 18 and older and they never care
21M Nice To Meet You Let's Be Friends I Also Like That You Want Them Kids To Be Careful How About Chatting
I identify as a man trapped in a man’s body
What about those who are 17?
No
as someone who was once a minor, we wouldnt mind being the victim of a bad bitch [19 now so if any beautiful women wanna victimize me legally hmu (dont actually lol i wont respond)]
You're well educated for a 5 year old lol
And i’m a mermaid, nice to meet you buddy.
Are you a founder of reddit lol
Plus no normal adult wants to speak with a teenager.
Hm?
For real. You feel mature as a 16 year old "look at all these responsibilities, and I can go out pretty late and do my own stuff."

Then you reach 18 and feel even more mature living on your own and doing your own stuff with no oversight.

Then you reach your 20s and realise how immature you were the whole time.
By they, are you referring to me or everyone in general? If you’re talking about me, I said under 18 because it has been minors who have been messaging me, lol.

I personally cannot relate to anyone under the age of 20 and morally it does not feel right either. I have no interest in anything NSFW, just gaming friends.
The appearance of being inappropriate chatting with someone older than you I would think would keep adults that are obviously much older than you away.

I would be very careful for that reason alone. I would question an adult that would accept your request.
See, you're a normal person with a healthy attitude, but more people are fear based and sexualize everything, so they can't imagine having a conversation that doesn't have some sexuality to it. Therefore talking to anyone underage is "weird af" because there's no way you could talk to someone and you're not trying to have sex with them /s

I'm like you, and have had relationships ever since I was a child with people older and younger, and it's been a very fulfilling life experience for me to develop all those different dynamics. It's pretty sad that people limit themselves out of fear, and will attack anyone who doesn't also subscribe to their fear-based thought processes.
No, I respectfully disagree. Minors should not be prompting conversations with adults. They need to stay within their age brackets. However, I don’t expect them to know better, but I expect adults to know it’s not appropriate. 

Adults should not be initiating private conversations with minors. There is a clear power imbalance and you’re weird as fuck if you think that’s okay.
You could definitely check out some of the teen subreddits, but I get what you’re saying. I think you’d be okay messaging within that 18-21 bracket, but I would always double check with the person. Personally I wouldn’t be comfortable with it, but everyone’s different. I do think it’s concerning for anybody in their 20s to talk to minors, but it’s not my job to police people.
Yeah but as a minor you aren’t capable of consenting. That’s when the responsibility falls to the adult, to be responsible and keep minors safe, but far too many do not and take advantage of them. As a minor I thought it was cool talking to older guys online and it led to me being taken advantage of. Of course my experience isn’t everyone’s, but anyone that is constantly sliding into minors dms need to be investigated.
I was bit by a radioactive meerkat and I unfortunately received the superpower of completing sentences. It’s terrible
I’ve never been friends with a mermaid. So how does that work? Are you top half fish and bottom half human?
And im dead wsg gang?
no myspace😂
The only teenagers I can put up with are ones I'm related too and even then, I mostly just give them motivational talks and then f-off till they need another kick or a job.
God bless teachers for this fact.
I mean I’m Down as in like I’d like to meet or make new friends if anyone is of age tho
Fair
I mainly always ask or message a disclaimer when I first message someone. Nobody seemed to mind and I’ve had people in their 20s go out of their way to contact me. I avoid teen subreddits since most people there are below 16
true, the adult in the situation knows better and shouldnt interact back with the minor, but its hard to deal with because theres so many adults who dont care and will do it anyway.
I'm curious as to how a 5 year old got into this situation lol. Where were you ?
Heyy deads
Hello dead. How was your day? Are you a fan of Jerry Garcia?
[deleted]
I think there are plenty of people who don’t mean any harm and maybe just aren’t clued into the fact that it’s kinda odd for an adult to be friends with a child. I think the only time it’s appropriate for an adult on these type of subs to reach out is when it’s posts of somebody in crisis/talking about self harm or any of that. And even then, I think it’s more appropriate to reach out and give resources like hotlines or trained chat agents who can guide them along to make sure they stay safe. I see so many kids posting that they are fine with any ages but it just hurts me to see cause I know that unfortunately 9 times out of 10 and adult trying to be “friends” with a kid is usually for some predatory. But again, I can only speak to my experiences online as a minor and now as a young adult. So renewing my faith in humanity tho to see other adults make posts like this and try to maintain the safety and well-being of people who otherwise can’t take care of themselves.
Ohh the memories of that day cause me great pain. It was a Saturday afternoon when my parents decided to take me to the zoo. I was a happy child then. Laughing, smiling, making friends everywhere I went. Then out of no where an elephant shaped balloon starts to drift by. I run after it, giggling and happy, then stumble onto the ground. As I get back up, a portal to another dimension opens up. From the portal walks out this older man saying it’s me from the future. He speaks of a Great War between humans and meerkats and while giving me instructions to save the world, a meerkat jumps through the portal and bits me. The rest they say is history.
You rock for being such a grest example of an adult to them. They're gonna look up to you as an ideal person they'd want to grow up as. 

Unless you're related or just extremely close friends to a relative of theirs, there isn't even a reason of interaction. That, plus your situation. 

I talk on vc with my friends in the US almost every night, and one of them is in his teens but is my friend's cousin, yet he's almost like a brother to me. I always make sure that we talk with my friend in the call if the cousin is joining.
My cousin is a few years younger than me in her first year of college, moving towards more independence. My uncle gets me to chat with her about what grades actually mean in the world and what you can achieve when you put in the work for good grades.

I've always been willing to give a hand with research or using my contacts and position to get her placement weeks and work experience. I am, all I need to be a voice on the phone and a guiding hand closer go her age than her parents but not a peer so a nice middle ground for everyone to benefit.
I'm impressed lol, fair play. Sorry for doubting you.
I understand your hesitation of believing a 5 year old on Reddit. There are a lot of weirdo’s out there.
Which zoo?
I know you won’t believe me, but the San Diego zoo.
P L E A S E ! If you’re under age posting on this subreddit, DO NOT talk to people over 18
For the love of god *just don’t*. If you’re underage, you’re a magnet for creeps. Some of those creeps will seem awfully friendly and innocent at first, but that’s what grooming is. !JUST BE SAFE AND BLOCK THEM! You are NOT cooler just cuz you talk to older people when you’re underage. 

It blows my mind how many men in their 20s to 50s i see in the comments of girls younger than 18. Get some help creeps and get off this subreddit we don’t want you.


Thank you,
Signed; A worried adult woman who was once groomed by older men that were so so friendly at first. 
Hey, u/mir04! 

Say hello and add a friendly comment to another user's post on the sub while you wait for someone to comment on your post! You'll make more new friends that way! You're also more than welcome to [join our official Discord](https://discord.com/invite/9UuDpwBftk) and [Reddit chat channel](https://www.reddit.com/r/MakeNewFriendsHere/comments/13m77dt/join_the_official_rmakenewfriendshere_chat) to find friends!

As a reminder, we strongly recommend:

When someone contacts you, **review their profile** before responding. 

Help us make this a better community by becoming familiar with the [rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/MakeNewFriendsHere/about/rules/).

Report any suspicious users to the mods of this subreddit using Modmail [here](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose/?to=/r/MakeNewFriendsHere) or Reddit site admins [here](https://www.reddit.com/report). **All reports to Modmail should include evidence such as screenshots or any other relevant information.**

Thanks!


*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/MakeNewFriendsHere) if you have any questions or concerns.*
I hate that some older people like that go out of their way to talk to kids, it just makes me uncomfortable knowing some of them never get caught
It annoys the living hell out of me when someone DM’s me “Hey! I’m 16 and I hope it’s not a problem”

Like do you not see that I clearly said I’m 25 in my post? So what makes you think I want to talk to a 16 yr old? 

The scariest part, is that the people who actually entertain DM’s from minors despite being adults are the very ones that a minor should be afraid of. 

I strongly feel like friendship subs should be 18+. It’s Reddit. And people on the internet will be people on the internet.

I know there’s the question, well, where should we send underage users then? It sucks, but my answer would be they shouldn’t be on here at all intermingling in the same spaces as adults. I know they get lonely too and school can be hell for some kids the way school is sometimes, but as sketchy as the internet can be this isn’t the solution. 

And it puts the person you DM in a VERY uncomfortable position to even get a DM from a minor at all.

I really really say to make these subs 18+. Those are just my two cents. Because some teens don’t understand clearly that it’s not appropriate or safe to be reaching out to adults.
Makes me crash out when I post and kids be messaging me. Like little boy or girl I have a child, this is weird, blocked.
Yeah not a creep but feel automatically creepy when younger people message me. I'm sure you're lovely people but I'm just not comfortable talking to anyone under mid 20s and that's pushing it. (I'm 40 btw)
I truly wish more people posted stuff like this when I was 14/15
As a man that has encountered these types of creeps before, women do this too but much prefer to dm you rather than out right comment on posts. Be safe children
Facts! No adult with good intentions is going to be messaging minors. Not one. Stay safe teens!
The annoying thing for me is I get more DMs from them and worse is on discord subreddits they add me and I end up with a block list longer than my friends list. 

The funny thing though is they are so easy to catch even without asking their age. Talk about work and responsibilities and I usually get an “I wouldn’t know about that”
I see this occasionally in the sub, I get a bit uncomfortable seeing 16 year olds posting, and then the comments are much older..
Omg i got a few under age kids text me on here and i was like uhm i have nothing in common with you sorry and i blocked them ,mind you i always mention in my post that i only talk to people my age or a little older
I’m so fucking tired of the minors messaging oh my fucking god.
“You are NOT cooler just cuz you talk to older people when you’re underage.”

This. But also THEY’RE also NOT cool if they’re talking to you. 

Like adult here, I promise you if they’re talking to you, and you’re a minor, they’re not cool at all and are immature creeps who can’t get with women their age.
20f and fr i remember i posted on here when i was 18/19 which is still an adult but i was massively creeped out by the amount of 40+ year olds like if i was 40 i wouldnt be messaging an 18 year old boy?? im concerned for those younger than me
All the messages iv received from this sub are just loser gooners
Preach! and ty
It's literally so disgusting how many gross men prey on children in here.
YES!!!I see posts here so often from 14 year olds in such a young way, it gets me worried.
Post right below this was a creepy text where a 27 year old wanted to hook up with a 14 year old and said the youngest they have went is 12. Now is this real? I hope to God not but TCAP showed us it very well may be
I guess this shows how much I am suspicious of reddit as even when I see the oh, I'm an "X" aged F. I'm like, I bet that's a guy looking for attention 😂

But then again, it is reddit..... need I say more.

But I wholly agree with this sentiment. I'm glad people semi-regularly post this kind of thread here.
It’s scary
Agreed! And if a guy who messages me has commented on somebody underage’s post they get no answer. It’s icky af
from an adult man that could never even fathom doing such kinds of things to kids.. I know the ones like me just scroll right past. the ones that don’t need to be investigated.
Release the force
Bruh am 18 and i dont even get people to just talk to me 😭 yet complaining abt creeps
THIS!!! I see kids on here as young as 13 - 14 and I worry so much for them! I sometimes comment on their posts to tell them to be careful of creepy people on here and to stay safe! A 13yr old should never be friends with someone over 18 PERIOD!
We probably should just make a separate page for minors
The real creep is the one that's allowing kids and adults in the same chat where making friends is the topic. Your verbal warning isn't going to mean a thing to parents or law enforcement when a child that goes missing is traced back to a contact they met on a particular app. To a point it's out of anyone's control but you sure don't want to have provided an environment that it happened and nothing posted  thar children were not allowed in the rook. This exact thing happened and 2 adolescent girls knew the guy was older and left in the middle of the night and he killed him.
Ohh you mean me😭🙏🏻
Yeah also puts some of us of dating :/ last time I tried a online dating site she said she was 19, and for the first time in my life I dated someone younger I was 22 at the time... ended up she was 17 and I felt disgusted in myself for not noticing :/ so yeah please don't.
I see it as well and it freaks me out. Every time I see 13F need friends I’m just hoping they know not to talk to any adults. The adults will message them without leaving a comment because they’ll get banned if they’re caught trying to talk to a minor. 

Like I said there’s an old guy here who seems to exclusively only talk to women younger than 30.

To the kiddos out there do not talk to adults under any circumstances. Even if it’s non romantic they should only be talking to other adults not minors. It’s inappropriate when they message you, please report it.
Sucks you gotta put a PSA out to grown adults talking to kids
So true
I am 21 and it feels wrong to talk to someone that  younger than 18 at all. The folks that are even older than me doing this need to get out and do anything else
So don't talk to people over 18. They are lying and grooming kids. Except you of course. You are just watching over everyone
No normal adult wants to be friends with a child. I don’t hate children but I certainly don’t want to be besties with them.
“NOW WHOS GONNA STOP MEEEEEEEE!”

- jack black
There's some that make fake accounts too, some groom younger people to send them pictures, chat with them.
And much worse.
I've heard and seen alot, not happened to me, because I try to be as careful as i can be.
The Internet is dangerous.
Stay safe out there people!
I thought that was common sense 😭
I'm not underage m34 arvada
There's minors here? Not one person at any point said maybe a devide was a good idea? What was the thought process to begin with lol nah it cool, Internet people ain't something to worry about. Not taking ANY EFFIN' chance, not sitting here wondering is that PG? Y'all be weirdos. The chat makes sense now. Btw 30 and 17 mixed sexes can not be friends, this ain't 90's television. I'm out.
There are easier ways to farm karma 🙄
Right! Because we only see the stupid ones that dare to openly comment on those kids’ posts. I can’t even begin to imagine the amounts that just send dm right away, privately.
As an aside, I sort of wish I had some way to talk to young girls (nothing in my life brings me in contact with them). I had a daughter recently and in thinking about what I need to prepare her for in the world, I've realized I really don't know anything about the struggles girls go through while growing up. Especially since I'm having a child late in life (and my own childhood was mildly abnormal and isolating) and technology has changed childhood so much. My wife grew up in a different country with a wildly different culture so I'm not really sure she knows exactly what our daughter will face.

But I've realized I can't put a post up asking to talk to young girls nor send them messages when they post. There's just no way to do it without coming across super creepy. Also I don't think I really have anything to offer them from a conversational standpoint. But like many things on the internet, cross generational friendship is just another thing screwed up by creeps.
yeah esp when it's like so obviously  with a predatory nature
I completely agree with everything you said, i wish every kids on here would see your message and really think about it. Just today after i posted, a 16 year old msged me to say they liked my post and would stay safe and then was asking to be friends cuz they were more mature than other 16 y.o. I truly feel hopeless cuz my message clearly flew 10 feet above this kid’s head and i dont know what could be done. I hate that those old creeps even exist.
As a fellow 25 year old, agreed. The internet is nuts. I'd be perfectly fine if kids just weren't able to access it.
Thank you for being one of the good ones 🫶🏼 We appreciate people like you
Right? Im truly sorry for whatever you had to go through when you were that age; i hope you’re ok now. Sadly its a hard fight for us normal-non-grooming-adults to win against the creeps, but i think if we just keep watching out for the younger ones we can help a tiny bit.
Yes very very good point, there’s more than likely just as many creeps women out there.
This ☝️ Literally a grown ass person has no business talking to kids.
tbf  lots of them are just spoiled. plenty of 16 years olds know about work and responsibilities.
Ugh sorry you have to deal with that! I used to post often on this subreddit but i dont really anymore exactly because of that. Ive made some amazing friends (my age) on here don’t get me wrong, but got soooooo tired of having to filter out all these old creeps or the ones faking a platonic conversation only to try and turn it sexual every chance they get.
it's like  on every new goddamn post too. and they do it in every "friends" type of subreddit. it's disgusting.
Bleh! That's so messed up.
Better to be suspicious sometimes lol. Reddit is…. reddit. Kids don’t get how scary or dangerous some stuff can be
Yes good way to filter out the creeps! They will always be present but i just wish they never got any replies so they would get bored and walk away from these subs.
Completely agree with you. But we all truly appreciate sane and normal men like you that knows its weird to talk to kids
Amen to that! And thank you for watching out for them like you do.
Sadly that would make it so much easier for the creeps. They would just lie about their age and go to this page and keep doing what theyre doing
That won’t work. You would make a playground for PDF files. This conversation had been had before. 

That’s why my solution would just be to remove minors from these spaces altogether. I have no dog in the fight because I have no authority to make any decisions, but that’s what I would do.
I see what you’re saying but creeps would just gather there and message teenagers.
Oh i know that my verbal warning doesnt do much trust me, im sad about it cuz i wish it was different. Im just hoping that i helped guide at least 1 kid. I agree with you, kids shouldn’t be on this subreddit let alone this app. Sadly a lot of parents don’t surpervise their kid’s internet activities and a lot of kids will just use a fake age or birthday for things that require to be 18+. Its just like watching a whole house burning down and only having 1 small glass of water to extinguish it.
These are my thoughts exactly. Sometimes you have people as young as 13 posting on here, the same space as grown ass men and women. 

It baffles me how that is okay. Some people just don’t understand internet safety, and it’s asking for trouble to allow minors and adults to intermingle in the same spaces. 

Putting all the minors in their own space is not a solution either. This conversation has been had many times before. So just make this place 18+. And keep people underage from being able to interact with people on here.
i hate when people lie about their age. like bro just be upfront wtf
My brother told me something that was so true once. If the number has a 1 at the beginning, just stay away unless they're your own child.
Yes exactly, it isnt the ones that comments that scares me the most but the ones that just “hide” and go straight to dming. 
And old guy messaging exclusively women younger than 30 might not be illegal but is still VERY CREEPY and makes me gag.
They most likely do not. They are young and inexperienced about life, and they are vulnerable. Some are taught by their parents to be wary of certain kinds of people, but some are not taught at all. And more than likely, it would be the latter that probably feels lonely and neglected that would be the type to seek out online interactions, which is not safe. 

I have a two sisters around that same age. Which is why I strongly feel especially people that young and vulnerable shouldn’t be allowed in the same space as some 20, 30, and 40 yr olds.
It goes both ways which is part of the problem OP is trying to address. You legit will have underage people DMing adults on here. They probably don’t fully understand just how inappropriate doing that is, but it happens. 

And not everyone has the good sense to hit the block button when a teenage child sends them a message. 

And I want to also emphasize that part of OP’s message:

If you are under age, DO NOT REACH OUT TO ANYONE OVER 18. It’s inappropriate and dangerous. Even though they will probably still do it anyway. Which is why I feel like they shouldn’t be allowed on here at all for their own wellbeing and to keep potential drama down on these types of subs.
i suggest just making a post asking for advice from people who grew up as girls and their experiences and what theyre thankful that their father taught them or things they wish they would've known. Then youre not asking to talk to young girls just hoping to become a good father which doesn't seem creepy at all!
You need to speak with some other girl dads and moms.
Whenever underage people message me I give them a warning message before blocking them. I try to explain why reaching out to adults is both dangerous and inappropriate. I doubt they truly comprehend just how inappropriate it would be for an adult to willingly try to befriend them, or how dangerous it can potentially be. 

All they know is they feel alone and want to talk to someone, sometimes anyone, which again, is not safe. 

Like I said, whenever this subject comes up, I always say that friendship subs should be 18+. It’s just not safe to allow minors and adults to frequent the same space online.
Idk how people can talk to someone so young anyway. I have bad knees and drink black coffee. You skibidi do or whatever. We ain't the same.
There were some weirdos but it definitely could’ve been worse for me. But mainly some of my friends had experienced this and I wish I was more aware that it actually was a problem because they would say “He thinks I’m mature” and so on and I was just like “Well I like talking to you, and you seem mature to me so it must be true” then when we all turned 17-19 was when it really just got into our heads how fucked up those adults (Cuz it was both men and women) actually were. So many things they manipulated into us doing and feeling guilty. I thank god for therapy honestly but it all starts at the beginning and reminding the children that THEY ARE CHILDREN and need to ONLY INTERACT WITH CHILDREN. It’s dangerous in a multitude of ways and some ways they won’t understand until they’re older
Ya but not as many will go for children they don't know. Unfortunately they are more likely to groom and abuse kids that they are in close contact with like a friend's child, a student, someone they already know some what to lessen the chances of being caught.
Very true. I have friends whose siblings are like that
ive made quite a few good friends on discord but not here as of yet. actually met up with 4 of them this year and stayed at one of their grandmas it was really fun. i just hate that there are so many creeps in this world and you cant just make inocent friendships
You're right. I think not allowing minors to post for conversations is the only thing that would actually work. It would suck but they go to school and stuff so it's easier for them to make friends anyways
Yeah never again it legit made me feel sick to know about afterwards
I did, the replies weren't helpful. It was mostly women saying their dad's were kind of shit.
I got drug habit older than most these people posting.
[removed]
Your message is very important and explains it so perfectly. Young us thought being called mature by those adults meant it was so cool, but its all tactics. The realization when we get older of what those conversations were is a lot to handle sometimes. I wish we could prevent it for every kid out there.
Yeah, kids are more likely to be abused by someone close to them, be that a family member, a family friend, a teacher or coach, etc that's why I'm hyper vigilant with my daughter around people in general
There's so many underage users on this sub, it kinda made me a lil sick. Like it's not just a few people. I found like probably around more than 10 on the first couple pages. I wish kids could just talk with other kids without adults trying to creep in. But that'd be way too hard to try and maintain and such.
im 20 probably not ur target demographic but if i remember later i can prob think of some things that might help but realistically itll probably be common sense things


if u give me a bit of like specifics ur looking for itd prob make it easier for me to give advice bc i might start waffling abt something u werent asking
And even if they don’t want to listen, they should always question “Why is this person talking to me?” And come up with their own answer, not what they’re told
Yesss exactly. “Why is this person talking to me” should be written at the top of all chats, could be a good reminder for some.
My experience with this subreddit as a male
Hi there, 

639 days ago I posted on this very specific subreddit to look for a long lasting friend. I made it clear when making the post that the intentions would be to make a friend, not anything sexual, because there is dating for that.

I posted on this subreddit and I got responses from different kind of people, both male and female. Most of the chats with the males were pretty boring imho and it wasn't lasting long before they completely forgot to respond.

But there was this one female who trusted in me and wanted to chat more. I simply asked: "Is it possible to talk somewhere else? I don't like reddit chat as I don't really look here often".

Which could be deemed as suspicious, but I want to be clear that there are many ways to connect to each other, I said I have everything from Snapchat to discord, to telegram and so on, whichever she prefers.

We both agreed on Snapchat and started talking there, get to know each other.

Why do I remember the exact days? Because from the very beginning we started talking, sending each other snaps and we now have 649 days streak.

This is a person who I now consider to be a very dear friend of mine, we plan to meet soon even though we live in different parts of the world, but we also made it clear that we both are very good friends and that it should stay that way. 

Why am I telling this? Because I don't think this subreddit is doomed. I think there are beautiful people out there wanting to meet other good people - as long as both of them knows what the intention is from the beginning.

I as a man, believe that we men should make the intentions clear in the beginning, whatever happens on the way, thats up to both parties to decide.

I am glad I made this post 649 days ago, otherwise I wouldn't have been talking to her to this day.

I am thinking about it on a weekly basis, that I'm grateful.

I hope this gives some people out there hope for this subreddit.
Hey, u/gabzlel! 

Say hello and add a friendly comment to another user's post on the sub while you wait for someone to comment on your post! You'll make more new friends that way! You're also more than welcome to [join our official Discord](https://discord.com/invite/9UuDpwBftk) and [Reddit chat channel](https://www.reddit.com/r/MakeNewFriendsHere/comments/13m77dt/join_the_official_rmakenewfriendshere_chat) to find friends!

As a reminder, we strongly recommend:

When someone contacts you, **review their profile** before responding. 

Help us make this a better community by becoming familiar with the [rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/MakeNewFriendsHere/about/rules/).

Report any suspicious users to the mods of this subreddit using Modmail [here](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose/?to=/r/MakeNewFriendsHere) or Reddit site admins [here](https://www.reddit.com/report). **All reports to Modmail should include evidence such as screenshots or any other relevant information.**

Thanks!


*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/MakeNewFriendsHere) if you have any questions or concerns.*
It's nice to read a positive story about this sub for once! 😅 I'm glad you managed to find and make a new friend from it. I haven't posted on here for a while, but I've had mixed experiences when I have or when I've responded to posts. 

The main issue I've encountered is always having to be the one to initiate conversation, or there just isn't any. I've had a few great chats through reddit, so then we agree to chat elsewhere and it's just bizarre how quickly it changes.

Really glad you haven't had that happen in this case though, it's always a nice feeling when you make a new friend!
I've managed to make a few friends on here. It takes a second, but it'll happen so long as you know HOW to talk to people
I met one of my best friends here two years ago or so and we met in person for the first time a few months ago. It’s like we’d been friends all our lives. There were so many people I had conversations with that fizzled out and many more that never responded, but that doesn’t matter because I made one really good friend. There is definitely hope.
Absolutely! I have met many excellent people through this subreddit. No long lasting ones yet but some of the best conversations I've ever had and I'm sure that I'll have to change that statement about no long lasting ones pretty soon.
Very nice. Thanks for sharing.
Congrats my dude,  your story is rare.  I've had kinda junk luck but glad some make out.
Beautiful.
This is awesome. Been thinking of posting but all I seem to read are negative posts about the results. Thanks for the positivity.
I met my best friend here but she lives on the other side of the world and I don't think we will ever meet. But, it's worth talking to someone genuine. I don't even remember when we started talking to each other because it's like a regular thing now 😂. So, yes it works but you will have to block so many weirdos first.
That's a pretty cool story! <3
i wish someone would reply to my posts and be my friend too 😞
I’m glad it did work for you. I’ve met nothing but scammers and fake profiles here. 😒
Beautiful story <3 You are so lucky to have such a dear friend! I have met some wonderful people on similar friendship subreddits tbh :3 The Key thing is: Not every message leads to chat, and not every chat leads to friendship, but if you let that discouragement flood over you, you’ll miss out on the friends that WILL stick around! I met my best friend via a completely random non-friendship subreddit and I can’t wait to meet him IRL one day <3 the best people are sometimes in the oddest places haha
I haven't had any luck with this Subreddit yet, I think mostly because I'm a guy and possibly having dry convos. I'm starting to suspect it's a me issue and not an issue on anyone else here. I might also not have come across the right person yet.
That's so wonderful :'D

I love the subversion from what you think it's going to be about based on the title to how the story/post actually goes XD

This is so pure and great!  <333
I’ve made a couple of great friends from this sub as well. There’s also those who just drop off, or the conversation is very lackluster.
With all the sexbots I appreciate knowing there might be a light at the end as a male.
It’s awesome, gave me some encouragement since I almost losing faith in it. How could it be so hard to find a long term friendship on internet, I’ll just keep trying. Congrats again!
As a newbie to reddit, I'm so glad this was the very first post came across!  
Yet I still need to be aware to some accounts and take time to trust them.

I'll make sure to read through the comments here and try to have a good time here.😊
Glad to read this positive story amidst the complaints and rants I have seen here... 

I am fairly new to this subreddit, but never got response from anyone (same or opposite gender irrespective).

So, your experience definitely raises some hope for folks like us who are seeking people for long-lasting friendships.

Thanks for sharing and I hope your friendship with this X girl (your dear friend now) stays forever and you may never part ways with her ever... God bless you two :)
Thank you for sharing this uplifting story
That’s awesome! I’m here for this sort of story. I’m far too anxious to actually post here, but it’s great to see you made a great friend!
This is something I think a lot of people need to hear, men do need to make their intentions clear and need to understand the importance of a first impression. A lot of people will have disappointing experiences by not getting messages, reaching out to people and not getting a response, or in general with conversations not going anywhere and then get discouraged. On subs like this it’s far too often bitter people will make posts talking about how hopeless it is trying to make connections here. 

Very happy for you that you managed to make a close friend and I’m glad you shared your experience, you could’ve made a post that just bashed people or criticized them but you decided to spread a positive message.

Congrats on the 649 streak and onward! 🥳🥳🥳
Good stuff! I too think this place isn’t doomed, but I find most people on it problematic. It’s just generally hard to meet people here and keep the conversation going, really get on a roll. Most people I’ve talked to for more than just a one off are very needy and the conversation is usually quite one sided. The want the company but don’t want to give it. They want a friend but don’t want to be a friend. 

I think most here, especially men, are looking for friends but because a romantic or sexual relationship is more necessary on the hierarchy of needs they usually seek that the most. I don’t hold it against them because I think I understand and sympathize, but most need to try harder to think of others’ needs and desires more only theirs.
This post made me so happy.  I have been struggling to find genuine friends where I live currently, and just joined this subreddit, so hopefully I can find a good friend on here!
Just friends? Of course it will turn into something else ;-;
Do you want to bang her?
nice
That's really cool ngl
You win the internet wholesome contest award. Thanks for sharing
When you said "Why do I remember the exact days?" my mind immediately jumped to "Because you guys are getting married now?"
Though it did not turn out that way, your story sure is a pleasant change compared to all the disappointing posts in this subreddit. Good for you, OP.
fwiw I think partly if someone is always made no one talks on here, sometimes they may be a little dry themselves, I've met folks from reddit for years and met a number irl, both who are aboard but visiting the UK and while I've been abroad. Its a numbers game, if you speak to 10 people it likely won't work out with 9, but sometimes you get a total gem
Oh thanks. Nice post
This is why I'm here. I'm not against flirty/pervy banter but only once a solid friendship has been built. And that's mostly cause I'm a flirt lol
This gave me hope haha thanks!
Once I messaged nearly 50 people in this subreddit who posted for friendship not a single ones responded me So then I don't message anyone but I really wanted a online friend.
Agreed.

More often than not its how you present yourself here.

The vast majority of people posting about getting no response you just have to look at their posting and comment history  and you have your answer  as to why no one contacts them.

Like you I've have plenty of success on here.  I  haven't  used it much recently  but moreso  during lock down  in 20-21

I've friends I still speak to every couple of  days and people I've  met off of here  as well.

It's nearly always how you present yourself. But for a lot of people playing the victim and blaming everyone else is so much easier
Ssne
Happens to me every single time. If I don't initiate they would never say a thing. Nobody to talk with, they are just responding to me.
It sucks when you are trying to talk to someone and they arent engaging with you at all.  I get where you are coming from.  Its good to get insight on this subreddit, since I just joined.
This needs to be pinned 📌
Make a tutorial
[deleted]
>I'm starting to suspect it's a me issue and not an issue on anyone else here.

People coming here looking for prince charming, and expecting Mr. Guy to charm them right off their socks, without knowing them lol.

Crazy ppl
Get out.
Wtf is this comment lmao
Read the room. Platonic friendships can be very beautiful and rewarding. No need to denigrate OP's friendship in this childish way.
Glad it's not just me it happens to haha. I don't mind being the first one to initiate, but it gets to the point when I'm curious if we'd still talk if I didn't and so I'll leave it a couple of days... which'll turn into a week... I know life happens sometimes, so I don't take it personally, but then you then see them post on reddit and so obviously you then think well maybe it is me 🤷🏻‍♀️
That's so narcissistic (of them).
I tried finding people. I'm just starting to suspect that what I say/do don't interest anyone.
Thats a yes
Absolutely. I firmly believe that having long lasting friendship is more valuable than a temporary pleasure.
Haha welcome to biology kid
This 100%. It's irritating to see that post. Think to myself "You didn't even try to write me..." 😮‍💨we'll even have each other on discord sometimes too
18F I wish men on this subreddit stop using it as a dating app
Hi I'm an 18 year old female student and when I came to this subreddit in hopes of making new friends I got spammed by requests while my brother gets none. Sure that are some chill and cool guys I've met on this subreddit but most of them are preverts but my last post was the worst when I removed my requirements ( I know dumb move) I got men who are 53 messaging me like what the hell do you think a 53 year old should have any business with an 18 year old I mean he isn't breaking the law anything but still very creepy. And besides the old men I got 100 requests when I made my previous post I always try to talk to everybody cause I promised I will respond but it is much.  especially when a lot of them are getting pissy at me for taking 7 business days to respond. And it feels like they are exploiting the fact that I have no irl friends that's why I keep getting requests. Which is disgusting that men are willing to take advantage of a girl in a desperate situation I know for a fact that if I was a guy then no one will care about me.


Edit: I'm not answering anymore requests so shut up 
Hey, u/Mother-Marsupial5285! 

Say hello and add a friendly comment to another user's post on the sub while you wait for someone to comment on your post! You'll make more new friends that way! You're also more than welcome to [join our official Discord](https://discord.com/invite/9UuDpwBftk) and [Reddit chat channel](https://www.reddit.com/r/MakeNewFriendsHere/comments/13m77dt/join_the_official_rmakenewfriendshere_chat) to find friends!

As a reminder, we strongly recommend:

When someone contacts you, **review their profile** before responding. 

Help us make this a better community by becoming familiar with the [rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/MakeNewFriendsHere/about/rules/).

Report any suspicious users to the mods of this subreddit using Modmail [here](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose/?to=/r/MakeNewFriendsHere) or Reddit site admins [here](https://www.reddit.com/report). **All reports to Modmail should include evidence such as screenshots or any other relevant information.**

Thanks!


*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/MakeNewFriendsHere) if you have any questions or concerns.*
Literally I get spammed with 20+ requests and they are ALL men like literally not a single woman in the 20+ requests. If you aren't trying to engage with them in a NSFW way they ghost. That's why I gave up on looking for friends on reddit
Sounds like you just summarised reddit as a whole.
I am a man in his early 40s, and I wish this, too. I just want to make some friends, and if I am lucky, I might get one response per post because most of the guys are trolling for booty, not trying to make a connection.

I wish folks would change their mindset.  Folks of all ages get struck by loneliness.
Girl you are not lying. I swearrr it happens to me too. Majority of the time I’m just looking for some close friends but Like I’ll occasionally get a cool guy that I like and maybe it progresses into something more, MAYBE. but I always get times of DM’s from men who are 30+ years old, old enough to be my dad, and the first message will be something like “I’m _ years old, dad bod, I make _ a year and have a decent job, I’m 6’0 tall blah blah blah. 🙄 like idgaf! How delusional are they to really think that 18/19 year olds wanna date some old ass 40 year old 😭!?!? I don’t care how tall you are. I don’t care how much money u make. I don’t wanna date some old balding man in his 40s
The edit line was hilarious 😂
True , any creep you see immediately block them. Some nice guys exist too on this sub but rarely you'll find them...
I have no doubt people can be gross and overwhelming on here. I suggest being very clear about what you want when you post. Age range, platonic, frequency and method of communication.

It cuts down on a lot of the problematic messages.
Report the people using as a dating platform.

Meanwhile, I've been here for over a year and haven't talked to anyone really.
If you're a guy there's no point in posting because no one will respond.
Btw if you could , tell your bro to hmu on discord "parzival5576". If he wants anyone to talk to
I wish women on this subreddit stop using it as advertising for their only fans
I mean I get it for sure. This isn't a dating app and should not be treated as such. 

I just want a friend to play video games with lol
sadly as you said, it's very true. these friendship subs turned into dating subs completely
Thats just reddit in a nutshell
I absolutely get that some guys do this, it's inappropriate, and it ruins things for us who are looking for just some cool people to talk to. On the other side of this coin are the sellers. I've been talking to a girl, having a good chat and then she hits with the fact that she's got OF and wants me to sub. I respect the hustle but this isn't the right sub for that. 

OP I'm really sorry you had that experience. Most of us just want to have a chill chat and hopefully meet some cool people. It's unfortunate that we can't seem to do that.
Exactly. I came on this subreddit one day looking for friends and still don't have any because they've all been pervs. Even when I mention in my posts that I want female friends, I get swarmed by guys.
Lol. Never gonna happen. Gotta start over and be more careful. It's just sad boy tinder up in here.
What I do is just ignore a shit ton and then I feel bad cause I’m like maybe it could have worked but when it doesn’t I’m like eh he probably was an ass anyway. I had a guy argue with me and say I was hostile for telling him it was night because he assumed I was having post partum when I was just sad
Well said.. and btw I am a male. I get both men and women adding me and yeah that's fine but after about 5 mins of chatting 9 times out of 10 they want it to turn sexual.. or the women are asking to sign up to their onlyfans. Like please I'm here to make friends and that's it.. sometimes i don't know why I bother.
*Dips quill into a terracotta pot of ink*

While there is anonymity, there shall be debauchery
Some guys just can't be friends with girls
I met some great people here. Fun banter but yeah men, y’all gotta chill
It seems like many people on Reddit are looking for NSFW content, so when they see ‘F’ in a post, they jump in with requests. Sadly, that’s just the reality of the internet. But there are genuine, kind people out there who want a real conversation, regardless of gender. The issue is, a small number of people make others look bad by acting inappropriately, and that can cause the person on the receiving end to develop trust issues, even towards those who mean well.
Literally - same! I gave up.. I have like over 30 requests in an hour, and was thrilled! Only to find out not one of them actually wanted a friendship or to just chat. And I had rules listed. 😩 and most of them wanted to “jump to another platform” and I can only imagine why.. I was so friggen bummed. I posted for friendship, I have no friends, live in the middle of no where, and have really really bad anxiety. I felt so much worse after that, and refuse to try again, despite what my therapist says.. people suck.. 😭
As a 54 year old guy I hate hearing this shit. Im really sorry you guys have to go through this. It sucks cause as an older guy, one of the things you feel compelled to do is encouage younger people. When Im at the gym, I see young women killing it and Id love to go over and just say you are awesome it keep it up. Or just tell someone hey you look great for no reason other than to make someone feel good and spread that around and have that girl feel good about it instead of disgusted. Or in school (Im working on a masters degree) strike up a conversation with many of the young brilliant women that surround me and enjoy that just to hear how the world will be shaping up next. But I cannot. Cause its going to be taken as just another skeevy POS trying to het in her pants. And I completely get it. I believe everything in these posts. And I see it too.  Im sorry to you to have to live like that.  And for me. Sucks.
I’m not kidding I only get F notifications on my phone, so I barely come here to respond to cause I do need some guys to talk to too, I need some information on bulking and to discuss the socio-economic And the political state of our countries with….
totally feel you on that
I dont think thats gonna change anytime in the near future but u can say fuck all to ones that come to u with the dating mindset
Damn, Tinder lite version
Oh this is why I didn't get any replies from women despite stating my asl when requesting to fellow women 🥲
But why are koalas not bears? Because they are marsupials…
33F I will be your friend! And screw the assholes.
It's like some guys think being a friend is an in, even though it's being a good friend that can naturally grow into a relationship, and not being friends with someone to get the relationship. It's like they're putting women in the "girlfriend" zone and anything else is unacceptable
Same
I’m a guy and I’ve met some chill guys and girls.  You’ll know within the first few msgs about their intentions
It’s Reddit, most guys on here are gonna be creeps, no other way around it really unless you pretend to be a guy at first until you find someone who seems trustworthy enough to tell them and hopefully they’d understand
In case of men whenever I try to find someone to talk to most women are just OF bots bruh
If we Homelander and Kira was real we wouldn't have any of these today's
On 1 side we have men that are thirsty and can't understand that there 100's of other subs for that and on the other we have OF models taking advantage of desperate guys. Then down in the trash we have the adults that like to talk to kids and blackmailers. I feel sorry for yall that deal with this. It's the one reason I stopped dm'ing first
Exactly!
Yeah Reddit isn't the best place to search for friends 😕.
I put girls only in my post and still only have men messaging me
I just don't understand why this is so surprising it deserves a post. Men are so disgusting there are literally apps with "straight" men on them trying to hookup and get sucked off by other dudes.
Me too. The only good part is that they tend to out themselves pretty quickly, so its easier to filter them.
I’m a man and have actually made 2 female friends on Reddit. Never from this sub though. I’m honestly not very active here because most of the people posting here are closer to your age, and I’m 40. The female friends I have made were based around connecting about the topics of the subs we met through. Not that it should make you feel any better, but the male analog for the messages I get in my inbox from women is a combo of OF girls and catfish/scammers. Sorry for your experience
It's either a dating app or an Only Fans sub anymore. No in between
I always just come on and send a message to the last 10 most recent posts, and thats pretty much it.

3 or 4 will answer, 1 or 2 ill actually get along with and a friendship starts.
7 business days. 😂 I like that.
The creeps ruining it for silly 'ol me who just wants to yap to someone 💔(my preferences are just crazy i lowkey gave up🙏)
It’s kinda sad to see these subreddits created for lonely people to chill with others used almost exclusively by desperate men
I've been getting frustrated with trying to find people to just talk to.
Women will always get more attention then men. 
It’s what happens in dating apps and real life. 
Women don’t just go up an start talking to men. And if a man does it? He’s considered a pervert, a creep, an idiot, or all three. 
I’m afraid of trying, not because of rejection, but because of fear of being judged or heartbreak. It’s happened to me before and it hurts. 
I’m loosing hope finding someone. 

If you have a partner, cherish them. Don’t be needy, but show them that you care and love them, and they are something special in your life. 
I don’t know if I’ll ever get that feeling.
Have your brother dm me
Make friends in real life, my suggestion. I shall never trust those people as friends who are out of nowhere and anonymous like on reddit even as a 18M. For me, Reddit is just for memes and Intellectual Masturbation now.
Usually I don't comment or dm anyone; I just enjoy reading posts and small interactions people have in the comment sections😹   Just wanted to cmnt on this post to let everyone know n let me know if I'm kinda weird or not for doing that haha bye😹👋
FILTERS young lady. It's the bane of social media today that creeps abound and you have to protect yourself.

Guarantee that those creeps don't have a daughter 

It massively changes your perspective! (If your normal)
I for sure is using it for a little more than dating
you could stop putting an f in the title, but then you also would lose a lot of attention
Hey are you DTF?
"I know for a fact that if I was a guy no one would care about me" guys matter too
O stop crying cause you know you done gave that cat up off of reddit
Yeah it's ridiculous there's a reddit for that man
There's just weird people all around on the Internet, I made a post a while ago where there is even some people on these types of subreddits that make multiple fake accounts and try to reel you into a conversation, perhaps you'll send them something in the future.
And I am a guy, finding friends on reddit is like trying to a diamond in the rough.
Women do it to me every time, as well. It’s people
[deleted]
Just look for girl friends. I don’t understand why all girls complain about that, do you need friends or male friends? Solving this problem is pretty easy if you want to.
and i wish women on this subreddit stop using it to promote their onlyfans!
Use this opportunity to learn how to firmly and confidently say “no” and master the art of ghosting
Terms I have no idea of their meaning. What is a pervert and a creep or a sleazeball?
Yup. It's either be masculine and get down voted for looking for friends or be a woman and get unsolicited pictures and unwanted advances. It's disgusting. Discord is better for making online friends
Yeah it's crazy. Gross that old men have dmed you
And we wish women would stop using it as a place to shill for their onlyfans. Thems the breaks kiddo it is what it is
Don’t give up, I’ve met some genuinely great people on here. You just gotta sift through the crap
I have up too, I'd sometimes make a post no comments one or two requests. I've only found one person who really likes what I like but we talk on and off. Sometimes people just don't know how to talk, like you make a post to talk but you get these mundane replies with zero effort then they ghost. Like is there something wrong with me? Sure, I'm really nerdy but they just go poof. Made me feel lonelier than it did before. (Sorry for a block of writing)
Or in real life lol.
If you'd like to talk, I'm down for it. 22f
Ok I don’t understand this either. Other woman never message or reply back to me! I don’t get it??
Im still looking for new friends, i do not need NSFW, i have a lovely girlfriend, so I don't need anything special lol.
29F and still looking for friends here. Start a chat with me and I’ll share dumb memes✌️
I see lots of users I think are cool and never dm any of them on any reddit out of fear of bugging them. I never realized how forward ppl are lol. ( I do occasionally invite ppl to a Reddit)
Putting your whole salary as a introduction is so crazy. Everything smells like desperation fr
They are trying to sell themselves like a job interview
It's like they think we are the same person. They think every girl is a bee
This is really funny. I’m a 46 F and it’s mostly 22-25 year old men that spam me. I have to put 35 + at the end of my requests. Sometimes men do really fit their cliches.
Just look for girl friends then?
Challenge accepted. Going to bag 10 as a 40 yr old. I will remember this comment when I do.
A lot, but some people only see F and jump right into dms unfortunately.
At least someone has a heart ❤️
Big Ernest Cline fan?   Just a guess... its a great series tbh.  Movies blew like Milton tho
Both suck
Exact same situation as you. Barely any girls dm me
No nein لا
Let's go on a comparison and see what's the average comment count on guys and girls posts? There is a big difference mate. See it for yourself in any friends making subreddits
how are they using it as a dating app?
Simple solution and make it a point in the post!! Problem solved for the most part and also not just the guys, 80% of the women here have turned into scammers/only fans or trying to sell you something. 
Complaining about it is just a way of getting attention lol
You do realize that there are men who pose as women right? There was a post here exposing someone who pretended to be a woman and even got photos from the internet of a random woman to further convince others

Edit: I figured you won't believe me so [here's](https://www.reddit.com/r/MakeNewFriendsHere/s/iZxLGP3U3J) one of the older posts exposing someone
There might be some who use this subreddit for that. But that doesn't mean all the women do that.
that's not a solution. guys shouldn't be pretending to be friendly only to have ulterior motives.
>Made me feel lonelier than it did before

Literally this. I also tried to find people on here multiple times and it always ended horribly, I get ghosted or they give me a bad excuse to ghost me (had a dude pretend to be dying to not talk to me anymore). Like they made me feel so damn insecure more than I was in the beginning. 

Had people who would ask questions that I already stated their answers in my post like do you guys not read the post? The longest someone lasted was a month or something before they ghosted
Or I message them and get lost in the 1000 other requests
Oh, i had no doubts about that. I'm sure most of them know they shouldn't be acting that way too.
How old is your friend if you don’t mind me asking?
Ive seen many guys here giving replies to the posts which mention the gender "F". So I never saw any real responses for the guys posts. As a guy myself, I haven't gotten any reply for one post I made. So I'd understand your brother very well since I've gone through the same thing. I'm very well open to connecting as a friend . Maybe I don't play games if he is interested in it lolll. But I like motorsports if he is into it. And also thanks for the sweet comment. Btw I'm sorry for the late reply, it's just exams and assignments got too much. Haven't opened any social media in a while.
I feel another way every girl i try to chat online is seller selling of
The username is from the movie ready player one. Just a nice name lol
True, but every time I talked to a woman using this subreddit i end up getting a link to their OF, I am looking for genuine friendship and it gets frustrating.
That guy who was pretend dying is disgusting, I'm hope you're feeling slightly better. I don't know how long the last one was... I think it was like 20 minutes lol. I hope we have better luck, this feels like a bit of an odd way to bond but I don't mind lol.
I had to ghost some people because I genuinely got diagnosed with cancer and it’s made my life very unpredictable. Having an abled body is a gift. However if he was really just ghosting you that’s horrible.
Try the MNFH discord server. There are PPL who just chat normally and are good pals.
I am sorry to hear about your cancer I hope you get better and beat that tumor. 

He was actually ghosting me on purpose as I checked his profile and he was posting about wanting to talk to more people and even made comments on some substance related subreddits so yeah
can you share the link?
I want a friend. I do not want to talk about my effing underwear
I create a post for the sole search of a pal, a freaking dinking friend, *not* a pervy little message from a male— or a female, you’d be so surprised. I am beside myself and it’s all lame to me. I want a friend. 

I do appreciate the free karma as I received messages — Yay, creepy PM’s. But enough is enough. 

Be decent, darn you. 

Okay, my rant is over. Do I feel better? 

*nah*…
Hey, u/alarmedlittlefroggy! 

Say hello and add a friendly comment to another user's post on the sub while you wait for someone to comment on your post! You'll make more new friends that way! You're also more than welcome to [join our official Discord](https://discord.com/invite/9UuDpwBftk) and [Reddit chat channel](https://www.reddit.com/r/MakeNewFriendsHere/comments/13m77dt/join_the_official_rmakenewfriendshere_chat) to find friends!

As a reminder, we strongly recommend:

When someone contacts you, **review their profile** before responding. 

Help us make this a better community by becoming familiar with the [rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/MakeNewFriendsHere/about/rules/).

Report any suspicious users to the mods of this subreddit using Modmail [here](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose/?to=/r/MakeNewFriendsHere) or Reddit site admins [here](https://www.reddit.com/report). **All reports to Modmail should include evidence such as screenshots or any other relevant information.**

Thanks!


*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/MakeNewFriendsHere) if you have any questions or concerns.*
Maybe pretend to be a dude, the worst thing that can happen is that people will not talk to you much.
[deleted]
Damn, I feel sorry for you... I hope you will be able to find good friend
“fit check?” “what color is your underwear?”
The moment you sense it’s headed in that direction just ignore them. Creeps are everywhere unfortunately. I’m sorry.
Won’t ask about your underwear as I’ve got plenty of my own. Plus my wife wouldn’t approve. Just looking for someone chill to chat as I’ve realized I don’t really have any close friends because if I looked hard enough all of our close friends are my wife’s close friends, but who are all really cool. And full disclosure, checked your profile and you do seem chill and cool given your interests which overlap some with mine: manga, anime, games, etc. I’m not much on the horror though but could be interesting to learn more. So if this hasn’t scared you off and has raised some interest, give me a shout and I’ll share more if it makes you more comfortable.
There was one time I posted on here and got 5 messages. Great, right? That’s until two of them wanna talk about sexual stuff, one of them is a troll, one of them ghosts you after like five messages, and one of them turns out to be a jerk (possibly another troll).

I’ve had some decent talks from these subreddits but unfortunately you’ll have to find a needle in a haystack to find someone to have a decent conversation with, and anything long term doesn’t seem to exist on these subs.

Oh yeah also I’m a guy, I’m sure the creeps are far worse for the women on here.
The curse of being female on the internet.
Fair enough but can I say I like your fuzzy sweater, it looks like it would be comfy on a cold day.
All these subreddits for finding friends usually boil down to thirsty guys looking for girls to bother, or girls looking for attention. I wouldn't really expect much else.
Same I want friends to chat with. I'm jealous my bf has many online friends and I don't. My discord is Desertrose5819 feel free to add me. I like hearing other people's issues it distracts me from my own
if someone asks what's in your pants, say a nuclear power house. something like that! it'd be funny
Join a group chat instead. Got a iPhone ?
how rude of them. nobody asks me about my underwear. shame
People just go and randomly ask about underwear. That's a bit weird.
I’m someone that I just trying to be a friend. Been down I’m here to just be a friend
I want a friend too, but nothing sexual eeww gosh. I just want a friend.
lol why am I getting recommended a thread from three days ago from someone just wanting to not talk about their underwear
Women being creeps? Noooo… really? That’s disgusting! Who and where are they so I can avoid them in the future….
Your profile is NSFW. That could be part of it.
Why the hell are you talking about your underwear??? Lol that's so weird!!!
I dunno, does your underwear have, like, lasers or blinky lights, or play music, or something? That would be interesting underwear talk. Plus, you could make a fortune marketing those! 

But seriously, I totally get it.  So - howdy 😊
I hope you have a wonderful night and I'm sorry for the creeps
Damn, already your second time you posted this? :( aww.. I'm here for you if you need anyone :)
Felt this. I’ve posted before looking for friends and even expressed in posts and such I’m not looking for anything sexual/romantic as I have a partner already that I love. And yet people still try to message gross things that I already said I didn’t want. 

With that said, if you want to talk, my DMs are open. Sorry you’ve been through the creepy people ringer too.
People be wildin
You like horror?
Ugh hi im a potato 🫣
I’ll talk about mine, bring it ❤️
Sometimes it feel like there should safe spaces for only women…
Same
Let's talk.  We won't talk about my underwear because I don't wear any.  WAIT, THAT'S NOT TRUE!  I do wear them, but.....dammit, now we're talking about them.  🤦‍♂️😁 Have you ever said something to someone to make them feel more comfortable, and it just made it worse?  

Can we start over?  Hi, I'm also looking for people to chat with.  Hope to hear from you.  Have a great day!
I misread and thought you said you wanted to talk about underwear, CUZ I DO, WHY DOES IT ALWAYS SLIDE DOWN AND WHY CANT THEY MAKE THEM BETTER AND NOT GIVE ME WEDGIES.
jeez,sorry to hear that,these people thinking we're bots or something I swear
But maybe I wanna talk about MY underwear. They're awesome. Boxers from JOE BOXER. They even have a button so I'm not committing crimes letting my dogs out lol. Fellas I recommend you try em. Very comfortable.
Maybe we need a new group for people who want to chat with underwear directly. Right now I think the problem is you’re serving as a go between.
Hey froggy, I'm an introverted 41M, also on the East Coast.  Aside from working, I'm just watching terrible Christmas horror movies on Tubi while trying to finish holiday shopping (I have 7 nieces and nephews and ZERO ideas).  
If you want to trade gift ideas, talk about your day, vent, whatever... feel free to say hi.  If not, that's cool too :)
Unless your underwear is like Swiss cheese or unchanged for days at a time there's no reason to discuss, and that's just for mental health check and good hygiene. 😁

Idg ppl. I just don't get them. I guess I'm an alien cuz as a dude I couldn't give two shits about that nonsense or asking pervy questions in general. Reddit is pretty much a cesspool sadly. 😞
I won’t talk about yours if you don’t talk about mine
I mean I dmed you and did not make any remarks about undergarments lol
i got a notification for this post- does this mean anything?👉👈
It’s so annoying I’m a dude and it happens to me people will keep persisting on talking about clothing or whatever or something Pervy
Lil' Philly' 🌌, you're Chi' will build a lifelong source of compatriots as long as you guard yer' heart and recognize fellow Shaman' Warrior 's when there in yer' midst..... Cowboy Wizard Trefgar 🤠
it will quickly go from too many people interested to no one at all ever lol
I’m a dude and no one ever messages me
But but 🥺 I have a vagina and everything (this is a good idea, not going to lie)
Yeah still don't save you from the creeps, trust
I would suggest just not mentioning gender instead. Pretending to be something you're not isn't exactly an ideal way to start a friendship
Zero manners lol
Don’t feel sorry, I am okau
Hahahaha
Yeah people get so rude. One guy called me sweetheart and when I asked him to not call me that he was like "Wassup?? Your ex used to call you that or something? You gotta get over that" and I'm like wtf... The audacity.
Whats so special about them?? There's at least as many women as men on the internet somewhere, so how tf does it end up as these many piling on one, all creeps scenarios?

it just doesnt want to get into my head how the demographics can even be this horrible.
Aw, thanks
Every girl I've met here has been genuine.  But then..isn't friendship attention?  Is that a bad thing to want? xD
Hahahah will do
Funny, you think I have friends for a group chat
Boxers or briefs— ya got me
Yup. I like weird. Not creepy
?
1. Naw it happens with 0% NSFW people too.
2. Hers *isn't* hardly any % NSFW!  [This](https://www.reddit.com/media?url=https%3A%2F%2Fi.redd.it%2F7rlinsgcer5c1.jpeg) is the only thing tagged NSFW for some reason on the first 2+ pages (and it's adorable; I love him <33 XD )
3. Just because a person is a sex-haver doesn't mean sex has to be a part of every interaction they have in life, nor do they want it to be.  I mean 99% of people who work with kids—including almost all parents..are also sex-havers XD
Uh, no. I have no idea why? I do not post NSFW
Uh, they want to talk about MINE?
Or at least have normal conversations and make friends normally...
I know righttttttttt

But then, given it's the internet, would it be any easier to distinguish a Reddit profile that was a creepy guy catfishing from an actual woman than creepy guys from noncreepy guys? [sigh] How would you do either?
You shouldn't have said that. You're going to get PM's asking you to prove it.
Well, I bet you feel really silly right about now choosing those parts. Perhaps next time you'll choose more wisely. 🤔😀
Now Im curious, what should I do to get creeps? they should give me the attention I need
Okay
When they're not getting what they want thats exactly how they act. As long as reddit stands i guess it'd always be this way,you just learn how to navigate through and if possible  be lucky finding a few you could actually vibe with
[deleted]
There's a difference between wanting a friend, and wanting someone to give you attention.

Or at least there is to me, I donno about everyone else.
awesome! also i hope you are doing well!
Auto correct was bugging. I was asking if you wanted to join mine.
boxer briefs. thank you for asking
Well good luck finding a friend and not a creeper
Just found the idea of it a little funny personally. But sorry you have to go through that still as it shouldnt really need to be said
Maybe you commented in a sub once? In any case, you can remove the 'NSFW' tag by changing it in your settings. Google it lol :)
People are weird... why can't they flirt like normal people. Weird ass fetishes... >.>
Any guy that asks to send a selfie immediately would give me red flags. Especially if when you say no they press for a photo.
It’d be hard to determine if it’s a dude catfishing as a woman
What…have I done
For me it's when I explicitly state I don't want a surprise pepperami. They take it like a challenge
Yeah I know. At least posting in r/creepypms makes me feel better.
Ahhhhh yes I see!  Just looking for transient interaction without much depth; that makes sense.
..I guess if I think about it, there can be attention without actual caring about each other ;w;

That's so strange and sad </3

I'm still not sure I fully understand it (outside of pervy guy attention—ick), but then, I am puppy <3
Holy moly- what’s google
The whole point is that she doesn't want to flirt at all, because this subreddit *in all caps* in *two whole rules* is not here for that!! x'D

But then based on your username I take it your identity is based on overriding other peoples' wills not in caring what they want, by basic definitions of words XD
Quick! pretend to be a guy pretending to be a woman.

The double catfish, if you will.
Tell them it has teeth
YOULL NEVER KNOW
Ah, the fishcat. Classic.
Catfishception
That happened in this sub or another one and then it went to a really bad place and the guy was attacked like crazy. It's always bad to lie, but in the sake of humor I approve this message 😁👍🏼
This thread made me laugh entirely too hard 🤣
A catfish inside a catfish inside [this](https://www.reddit.com/r/MakeNewFriendsHere/comments/18gse29/i_want_a_friend_i_do_not_want_to_talk_about_my/kd5uzxp/).
NOOO
u/next-guidance7992 is fake!!!
u/next-guidance7992 is fake!! just letting you girlies and guys know!!! she may be a woman but she uses someone else’s pictures pretending she is them!! the person’s pics she uses is named Mariana Beckova!

be aware everyone!! she seems so nice and genuine too 😭

*update: i think she deleted her profile or blocked me. either way im sorry for being the online police i just want people to know so they don’t form a false friendship with someone pretending to be someone else!!! i hope everyone stays safe :)*
Hey, u/anothercutebrunette! 

Say hello and add a friendly comment to another user's post on the sub while you wait for someone to comment on your post! You'll make more new friends that way! You're also more than welcome to [join our official Discord](https://discord.com/invite/9UuDpwBftk) and [Reddit chat channel](https://www.reddit.com/r/MakeNewFriendsHere/comments/13m77dt/join_the_official_rmakenewfriendshere_chat) to find friends!

As a reminder, we strongly recommend:

When someone contacts you, **review their profile** before responding. 

Help us make this a better community by becoming familiar with the [rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/MakeNewFriendsHere/about/rules/).

Report any suspicious users to the mods of this subreddit using Modmail [here](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose/?to=/r/MakeNewFriendsHere) or Reddit site admins [here](https://www.reddit.com/report). **All reports to Modmail should include evidence such as screenshots or any other relevant information.**

Thanks!


*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/MakeNewFriendsHere) if you have any questions or concerns.*
I have noticed that half the people who post here are fake. They don’t even try to make it look genuine.
Oh there's many more weirdos here mooching stolen pictures from other people's IG account. Always cross ref pic with IG/ X or OF
Best is to ask pic verification.. sorry but thats how it is now
Doing noble work
Thank you for your work and this subs credibility have fallen a lot
> i think she deleted her profile or blocked me> 

They deleted their profile and yeah there are scammers on this sub and other friend making subs

Don't feel bad because these rats deserved to be called out 

Also it is very easy to know if someone blocked you and here is how

If you go to their profile and it shows this

https://imgur.com/a/50Gwb07

But if you visit their profile in a incognito window or logged out of reddit and it shows up fine? 

You are blocked
I mean, this is true of so many accounts here. 

Also, most of the "teenagers" who post here are so obviously either actual or wanna be vigilantes (or maybe just cops if) that I don't even understand how people fall for it.
🚨
💻
I post and reply to invites but some tend to be creepy or just a hi or just to many to reply to all. I hope you guys genuinely find and make real friends !
Ya, I get about 3-4 fake profiles messaging me any post I have made. Some are now detailed than others. I don't post much anymore. I mostly use Reddit to doom scroll
She deleted it
I found most of the accounts that actually respond end up trying to sell something and thats not what i am looking for
You'll notice that about 20% of accounts are very sweet, kind, and genuine seeming. They also all use one of about six different sets of pictures that belong to a handful of popular content creators. If it's too good to be true, it likely is. 

If you're good with pattern recognition, it's easy. If not, I always ask for a weird picture if they ask about sharing any sort of pictures. "Send me a picture of you holding up a fork pointed upwards." 

It's unfortunate it's necessary, but everyone has a fork. People are weird as hell on Reddit. Sorry someone tried to get ya OP.
Ok sorry. I will say don’t build friendships just because someone posted a nice pic on profile. Character and attitude should be paid attention to. Regards!
So you’re real then? Idk there are so many fakes here I can’t trust anyone
She deleted her account. I think she deleted her account because she saw this post that is true.
Yeah, it's been pretty disconcerting thus far because so many people are fake, have low fidelity for meaningful conversation, or are trying to peddle something or another to you. It would be nice to see more callout threads like this.
Keep up the good work.  How long did it take you to figure it out lmao
Sigh. Well thanks for pointing it out.
Oh no this sub is full of fakes,,,,, anyway (wait till you know about the bots)
Oh thank God. Honestly, I was starting to get online social anxiety. Keep doing The Lord's work, soldier 💪💪
online police at work , great
You are also fake 🥺
Soooo basically, someone is on Reddit who isn’t who they say they are?

I’m shocked!!! 

I didn’t think that could happen here, thank you for the heads up Reddit police warrior
i know !! it sucks for those of us who just want a genuine friendship :/
And a big majority of the rest just ignore people
I think it's way more than 50%. And it's super discouranging.
i’ve been noticing that!! thanks for the advice :) i plan to do that going forward :)
🫶🏼
it really does make it harder on the rest of us huh!😭
thank you very much!!! 🫶🏼
i guess some of us are just blinded by wanting friends! i usually don’t respond to new accounts but this person’s account was 2 years old 😭
just wanting to warn people!😭
thank you!! if you ever want to talk feel free to dm me <3
yeah i get a lot of fake ppl too. this was the first one i was genuinely upset about because the person behind the account (whoever they were) was very sweet and we got along well. don’t know why they had to use someone else’s pics 😭 bots are a little harder for me to tell besides the “hello”
that’s awful. it doesn’t dawn on me that that’s the case for most men. especially when you are trying to find genuine friends. you can dm me if you would like to :)
it’s a learning experience! i was just so sad because i genuinely liked the person behind the account! it sucks they were pretending to be someone else. they were enough on their own 🫶🏼
the friendship was built before any pictures were exchanged. thanks though!
lmfao. yes i am indeed real
ok! i am just looking out for others :)
i’m sorry you feel the need to be sarcastic. calling out people who are pretending to be others may seem silly to you, but doing so could possibly help out someone who isn’t aware. i genuinely hope you have a wonderful day/night :)
True. I tried once, got no replies so I just lurk here now. Don’t feel motivated to reply or make a new post because of all the fake accounts. Hard to find good and true friends nowadays I guess.
Yeah someone last night was so obviously fake it was funny ngl
oh wait i totally read that wrong! lol. i will say i ignore people who just say hi or “26m tx” but if someone genuinely puts effort into their intro, i try my hardest to accept and make it work!
exactly! just trying to help others so they know what to look out for :)
Always pay attention to details.. once a weirdo was so desperate IT gave ITs driver's license but it was clearly fake af. Im using it bc clearly they arent human enough to have compassion
Wdym?
No it chill thank you
Bots I get SOOOOO many of. And I've had a couple that strung me along a bit longer. It's hard finding someone willing to chat for longer than a week
Dm sent
Ok welcome
That’s a first lol
The fact you are nice, even to the mean people. You are just too sweet! :)
i’m so sorry! unfortunately that seems to be a lot of experiences here! makes the few real, genuine people we find that much better! :)
wanna talk?
You’re right with that but I’ve always written a full message and never got a return
you said the credibility of this sub has fallen a lot, i’m agreeing and saying because of that it’s harder for the rest of us who are looking for and just want genuine friends!
Lol
why thank you!! i find that being bitter and spiteful doesn’t help me at all. if someone is rude to me, they are lacking kindness somewhere in their life and i’m glad to try and help 🤍
Its all good. I am an introvert anyways. It’s not like I am losing much lol. It just gets a bit lonely sometimes because I work remote so very little human communication happens for a long time. 
Yea fair, I'm your side too on that
I’d love to talk if you’re actually real tbh
feel free to dm me if you ever wanna talk!!
I'm quite late. But same to both of u!
Thanks for the offer. I appreciate it. I will keep it in mind. Also, likewise. Feel free to dm me if you are in mood to chat about random stuff. 
This marks the beginning of a new friendship
Some of you weirdos don't realize we can see your profile history?
I've seen some posts or comments with things like "I will listen", "I feel lonely hit me up" or even worse "let's chat and have fun!". Then I go into their profile and I see all kinds of nsfw stuff or onlyfans/marketing. 

So frustrating, especially for people who will actually listen or are here to have conversations. Don't even get me started on minors. At least you do get other pervs busy so that's a +1 for you.

Anyways, I'm up for a chat if you want. We can vent or talk about the latest advances in biotechnology, no other options! haha

Edit: Typos
Hey, u/Positive-Hunter9202! 

Say hello and add a friendly comment to another user's post on the sub while you wait for someone to comment on your post! You'll make more new friends that way! You're also more than welcome to [join our official Discord](https://discord.com/invite/9UuDpwBftk) and [Reddit chat channel](https://www.reddit.com/r/MakeNewFriendsHere/comments/13m77dt/join_the_official_rmakenewfriendshere_chat) to find friends!

As a reminder, we strongly recommend:

When someone contacts you, **review their profile** before responding. 

Help us make this a better community by becoming familiar with the [rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/MakeNewFriendsHere/about/rules/).

Report any suspicious users to the mods of this subreddit using Modmail [here](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose/?to=/r/MakeNewFriendsHere) or Reddit site admins [here](https://www.reddit.com/report). **All reports to Modmail should include evidence such as screenshots or any other relevant information.**

Thanks!


*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/MakeNewFriendsHere) if you have any questions or concerns.*
Empty profiles are also a big red flag, just FYI.
Redditors in general seem to forget that post and comment history is a thing. And they'll treat you like a creeper for looking at it. There is no other social media on the internet where people forget that there is post-in comment history as much as Reddit. 🤣

Something about the format of this website and people's impulse commenting just makes them completely forget that there is a history. 

I've just never seen this level of amnesia before. Never on Facebook did someone say "OMG, you saw the post I made yesterday?!" Or on Tumblr "What, you're looking at my artwork archive?!"
[removed]
Do these OF models intentionally use their “business” reddit profiles or are they just tech illiterate zoomers?  I would think using an alt would be an easier way to lure someone in. 
And for everyone's knowledge, there are websites that show all posts and comments, even if deleted by the user. I'll get curious and check a lot of the ones that say they're a teenage female, the shit that they've posted and deleted is insane. Literal men in their 50s trying to get other young users to talk to them by acting like they're 15F
LITERALLY.  every single time
Why not latest advances in nuclear technology😤
I hope my post history scares bigots away
Those "let's chat and have fun" posts are normally created by bots. When the wording is pretty generic and short, it's usually a bot posting it.
I don't mind that people look at things like that, but seeing how they comment on nsfw posts shows the kind of person they are. No, I will not message a 34M commenting "DM me" on a 17F's post. No, I will not message a guy saying "that's so hot" under an "incest confessions" post. Neither are made up, ran across comment history like this in the last couple of weeks. One guy messaged me first, I saw his history, and I called him out about trying to message a minor... he immediately deleted his profile after that. If I can weed some people out of my life, great. Wish people came with warning labels.
Oh my... *grabs popcorn*
If the beginning of the profile history is karma farming posts, you can rest assured it's an alt. In my experience, people that have alt profiles have many and they jump around from one to the other. Not really any need to do that unless they lie a lot and have reasons to hide things. 

And yeah, if I open your reddit and it's filled with you commenting on every NSFW sub "show me your tits", "me", or similar nonsense, you can count on one thing, I won't be responding to your messages. OFs was intended exactly for asshats like this, and those models deserve to be paid.
I felt I needed to rant about this. I saw your post now.now I am announcing my retirement
Thanks for all the comments peoples of reddit!

To address those defending their right to explore nsfw stuff or do whatever they want. You are free to do and I'm not judging whatever it is that you do on reddit or your private life. 

Just realize that you are perceived as in the same group as those who are weird and may have malicious intentions and by defending your right to do this, you are also defending them in some way, imo.
I'd ask you to illuminate me about whatever latest thing they've invented on the path to creating the Terminator but your own profile is empty so
Even if posts and comments are deleted they can still be found online and a lot of people don't realise that 😂
We keep talking about it but nobody does anything about it.

There needs to be a friends making sub where only verified users can post or comment. One that bans bad actors. And, ideally, one that doesn't allow children.
[removed]
Same a chick (I can only assume) chatted with me for like a week, pretending to be interested in an online friendship/penpalship just to drop that she started an onlyfans and want me to subscribe to it.. haven’t blocked a motherfucker faster.
What if you're looking for both?

I'm quite an open person on the NSFW front, but am also always looking for friends.

Is the fact that I do post looking for NSFW things in different subreddits suddenly not make me a good option for friendship?

I believe the taboo on NSFW things actually limits our mental health, and whilst yes, you shouldn't be discussing those matters immediately with everyone, if you always steer clear of those subjects, unable to talk about those things, you keep up the stigma. 

Ofcourse there is a difference between someone comfortable with themselves and NSFW and someone actually trying to get things going in an NSFW fashion even though you've stated you're looking for friendship first and foremost.

I simply wonder whether an NSFW post immediately should signal that friendship would be impossible.
[removed]
I feel really dumb because I never knew you could do that.
Finally someone said this ❤️
count me in
i made 1 post that talked about sensitive subjects that i marked nsfw so now the whole acc is marked as nsfw .w. and i cant change it :c probably one of the reasons i don't get responses lol
That’s what I love about Reddit. It’s just like real life.
👏
I don’t get how people forget, every once in a while I just go through my old comments from a few years ago just to see who I was and what subs I was engaging with
It's so weird. How they gonna be sociopathic and autistic at the same time but good at neither
I’ve been doing some research and there’s a huge chunk of the women  who are chatbots with AI generated images.  Of course the majority of the guys here aren’t thinking with their big head so they don’t care. 
I got a message the other day that seemed normal then checked the profile to see they were married but looking to "fill the gaps and have fun"...ew.
Onlyfans people are people too though and they also have feelings of getting lonely and wanting someone to TALK with.
So you’re part of the problem OP?
Agreed
Agreed. It's a burner account since I don't want to post with my main one as it contains personal info but yes, I'd probably avoid empty accounts too.
That’s kinda how I’ve begun to filter ppl out now
how do I find these sites?
What do "alt profiles" and "OF"  mean?
I’m not even defending myself, as I’m not very active in NSFW on Reddit, but just want to chime in that the demonizing of most things sexual and sex-negativity in the world is dumb. Humans are sexual animals who reproduce sexually and it’s beyond stupid how repressed and judgey they are in general.
We are a sfw server and do not allow anything nsfw or that can be deemed inappropriate.
Woah I didn’t even know that existed. You just opened my eyes to a whole new world
Would you meet someone at a cafe wearing a t-shirt of a strip club with a butt right in the middle? That's what a profile like that looks like here.

Edit: Not meant to judge what you do. You do you.
ehhh actions elsewhere are pretty indicative of what kind of person you are in general, i get your point but personally its enough of a red flag for me not to engage with someone, if i saw a girl had an onlyfans plugged to her profile i wouldnt engage with her, and this is especially true if i were a woman talking to a random man from reddit, assumptions in this case are usually right
Same for me only it was on a dating app and I think it was more pushing 2 weeks to try to lure me into a crypto scam. lol I already made money on crypto and I was in good faith warning her it looked like a scam when she tried to get me to sign up.
That's happened to me a couple of times.
We are a sfw server and do not allow anything nsfw or that can be deemed inappropriate.
Yeah, I posted something the same but deleted it being that some would assume the OTHER NSFW. But if you look, you'll see true NSFW shit. Like seeing they comment on young girls' photos and talking about railing every woman in every post in a certain community... 🙄
It's also easier to ghost someone. I'm not gonna put my effort into a conversation if they could just delete the profile because there's nothing to lose
"Don't accept candy from strangers" he said, then proceeded to offer a candy.
Bruh
Lol you're welcome
It was far more popular during COVID, as you could probably imagine. But there's still lots to experience
I can see your point but I'm not coming in here and saying "hey I do erotic audios let's be friends"..I come in here, am respectful and if someome chooses to judge me based on something I do for fun then so be it.
Most of these posts that “seek friends” are from literally hours old accounts. It screams catfish/scammer.
You learn something new everyday. This is truly art
I understand. You may have good intentions but from my experience, you are a minority.
Will forever regret posting on here
Why are some people on here so flipping disgusting?! You post that you just want a friendship and then all of sudden they telling you that they got a hardy or the color of your skin would look so good on their "poles". This is the reason why we don't respond to some messages. 
Can't we all just be normal and stuff?! Literally disgusting 😑
Hey, u/ComfortableBee4174! 

Say hello and add a friendly comment to another user's post on the sub while you wait for someone to comment on your post! You'll make more new friends that way! You're also more than welcome to [join our official Discord](https://discord.com/invite/9UuDpwBftk) and [Reddit chat channel](https://www.reddit.com/r/MakeNewFriendsHere/comments/13m77dt/join_the_official_rmakenewfriendshere_chat) to find friends!

As a reminder, we strongly recommend:

When someone contacts you, **review their profile** before responding. 

Help us make this a better community by becoming familiar with the [rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/MakeNewFriendsHere/about/rules/).

Report any suspicious users to the mods of this subreddit using Modmail [here](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose/?to=/r/MakeNewFriendsHere) or Reddit site admins [here](https://www.reddit.com/report). **All reports to Modmail should include evidence such as screenshots or any other relevant information.**

Thanks!


*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/MakeNewFriendsHere) if you have any questions or concerns.*
And then when you call them out on their shit behavior they just start getting mean or calling you awful things. "I'm just trying to be nice." 🙃 Zero winning.
Yeah that's why I stopped posting on this I'm so sorry
Yeah, a lot of men on Reddit are sick fucks. I made a post yesterday talking about some of my experiences posting on SA support subs.

[https://www.reddit.com/r/venting/comments/181ishi/i\_am\_fucking\_tired\_of\_pedophiles\_and\_men\_who\_get/](https://www.reddit.com/r/venting/comments/181ishi/i_am_fucking_tired_of_pedophiles_and_men_who_get/)
Lol it’s always so weird on here 😭
Yeah Reddit became trash 🗑 🙄
Part of being on the internet. Most of them are dudes with no social or home training emboldened by the fact that they are anonymous. Its disturbing to be honest.
I know there will be guys on here that say “well, ya know, it’s the internet, what do you expect?” or “they’re just trolls”… as if that’s an excuse for shitty behavior. 🙄

No one should ever be made to feel regretful of posting on Reddit all because dudes can’t act behave appropriately.
[removed]
It is everywhere not just here. On dating apps when you clearly post what your into, the inbox of Reddit, Facebook messenger and all the rest
I feel this, it's a reason I stopped posting here tbh. I just get a lot of OF messages and "add my snap for some fun" messages. Gets old real fast, I just want to talk to someone on discord or whatever and maybe make a cool friend.
What the hell is going on with people that this has become so common?  I hear stories about this on Reddit on dating sites in the real world. Like, why do so many guys feel this behaviour is acceptable? What does it even gain them to act this way?

While I appreciate it's far worse to be on the receiving end of this, it makes it so much harder for anyone to make friends. Half the guys here have no interest in speaking to another guy and half the women here have absolutely no reason to chance a friendship with a guy because of these sorts of experiences.
Happy to say I’ve never endured this :) but I’m sorry to those of you who have
Its pretty dumb. Like I hate people like that and these subs really show the lengths dudes will go to be creepy. Cause dudes here will post looking for friends and maybe get a couple. But then when a girl posts a large chunk of the responses is dudes. It really goes to show how strong peoples ulterior motives are. Its really upsetting that people try to take advantage of women in that way. Its really sad.
On behalf of the guys , I apologize
It’s so gross on here like😭
Uhhhh this is Reddit. It’s not a shocker that what you described happens.  Just block those responses and move on. Nothing you do will stop it from happening but you can choose to block the trash who wrote it.
I've gotten pretty lucky with it, surprisingly. The people I'm talking to are functioning members of society and graduated from their mother's basement. I'm sorry this happened to you.
The stuff you see on Reddit and ig is soooooooo cringy. Idk, how some guys lack basic social skills 🤣
[deleted]
On behalf of all men, damn, that shit sucks. I have a clear conscious, though. I think the type of people who are horn dogs are also the type of people who go on subs like this to exert their horn-doginess
Not all of us men are disgusting like some sorry you had to go through that
Ya but some real  people do exist I guess🤔

 like yourself  🙂

and all the people on this comments section 🔥

Who are really committed to the subreddit rules👍
It’s the internet there’s a lot off trolls who have nothing better to do 🤦‍♂️🤷‍♂️
Short answer - If you're here you are not good/have no opportunities to make friends irl
I apologize on behalf of the animals you've heard from - we aren't all like that. But, you know what they say about a few bad apples.
Aye. Sorry mate but it is what it is. We gotta block and forget the eegits because they don't stop coming back
Ok
Dm'd you don't worry no disgusting talk from me
All I get are ghosts here.
Because this is reddit and if you say you're a girl, the neck beards come crawling out of the woodwork. What else did you expect?
 Getting rid of the wall that I put between myself and the world would feel like some kind of self mutilation. I can't imagine that luxury of having the energy or willingness to react to anything Standalone everything
Truth
lol
Sadly they're everywhere. 😞
Sorry you had to experience that it’s honestly disgusting
Need to pause for a second and band together to say putting peanut butter on pizzas is crossing a line.

First pineapple, now this?!?
There are some ladies over here who also invite you to pay for their adult content or even a normal conversation. So its better if we put it out as a lustrous thing in humans rather than targeting a single community of men.
“Always has been 🧑🏻‍🚀🔫”
It’s the world we live in, what should be and what is are completely different, complaining about it is going to change nothing. 

We don’t like those dudes either, they’re disgusting but we have as much ability to affect change in them as you do the actions of shitty women. So our response to you is the same as yours is to us, something to the effect of “sucks that it happened, but if you’re going out to play with the animals, you’re likely to step in shit.”
Yellow fever?
Dont apologize for literal trash if youre not part of it.
Nah, leave the apologizing to them
White knighting
[deleted]
Hey some of us lack those skills but we're not gonna try coerse you into doing some bs you don't wanna do.

I just sit there and look awkward af.
Do those come from mostly women or men?
This doesn’t excuse shitty behavior
oh shut up, there is no room for comparison between promoting sex work and receiving an unsolicited sexually charged message when Ur just looking for friends. I'm so sorry that you have to witness a post of someone promoting their only fans or whatever, but if u think that's bad try and put urself in our shoes. It's not nice receiving insanely vulgar messages just because you are a woman looking for friends.
"first time? 🏗😁"
You said a whole lot of nothing.
We're allowed to fucking complain. Speaking out about it can and may have even done something. For example, sometimes they present themselves in the comments and now I know who to block. Or people you want to surround yourself with reveal themselves in the comments. Also complaining and having other people validate our experiences and have sympathy is just nice. Helps makes the world or US feel a little better that there are actually good people out there. Not to mention it helps spread awareness to gals that are new here. So while it really does suck and a lot of these fuckwits won't change, complaining does not do nothing.
[Yellow fever](https://www.urbandictionary.com/define.php?term=yellow%20fever)
Figured someone should say something.
No there’s not.
Hey that’s perfectly fine, im not better myself 😂 what I don’t understand is never meeting someone and be like “ me want to see Boobies now” like bruh you wouldn’t talk to someone like that in person😂
[deleted]
Never said it did mate but the internet tends to be a evil fucking place
Idk, i get unsolicited adds on snapchat from OF models etc. ( probably bots ) bit like those shit guys.

Sure if i tried to make friends on reddit it would also happen here.

But yeah, you're not wrong, when it's from someone you are considering to be a new 'friend', it's certainly off putting.

Life is rough, why people gotta be so shit to each other idk. Bully complex.
Cheers, mate! Promoting sex work? Do you really think that it's alright to use this subreddit and then lure people into buying your nu des? 
Yeah the people who harrass or forcefully disgust others are shit! Better to find a way to shut them up.
I got pacman fever
Lmao i never heard that.
Nah bro, each to their own, there are good normal guys out there.

Your apology does not prevent future fuckwits from being themselves..
[deleted]
Yah dead right, i guess anonymity causes audacity.

A half ass hacker could prob figure that shit out tho so i'd be careful.
You're bangin'. Pal. Have a good day.
Idk about your world but more evil shit seems to goes on in the real world to me.

Trolls should be funny not fucking distasteful.
That’s news to me. I haven’t counted it anything but I’ve never been able to not block someone.
I’m a dude so I don’t think many people are looking forward to my boobs😂
Each to there own bud
Now I need to know the limit of per day blocks. Is it 5? 7? 31?

Who chose this arbitrary number limit?
Tits out for the girlssss
Has anyone actually found platonic guy friend here? 24F
im not looking for guy friends specifically, its just when i post thats who texts me.


 At one point or even in the beginning, everyone gets sexual with me and i honestly dont know if i should blame myself or if its normal in this sub.
Have any girls found platonic guy friends ? Or have had a platonic conversation? Are there guys in this sub who dont turn everything sexual? 


Hey, u/Bubbsindistress! 

Say hello and add a friendly comment to another user's post on the sub while you wait for someone to comment on your post! You'll make more new friends that way! You're also more than welcome to [join our official Discord](https://discord.com/invite/9UuDpwBftk) and [Reddit chat channel](https://www.reddit.com/r/MakeNewFriendsHere/comments/13m77dt/join_the_official_rmakenewfriendshere_chat) to find friends!

As a reminder, we strongly recommend:

When someone contacts you, **review their profile** before responding. 

Help us make this a better community by becoming familiar with the [rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/MakeNewFriendsHere/about/rules/).

Report any suspicious users to the mods of this subreddit using Modmail [here](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose/?to=/r/MakeNewFriendsHere) or Reddit site admins [here](https://www.reddit.com/report). **All reports to Modmail should include evidence such as screenshots or any other relevant information.**

Thanks!


*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/MakeNewFriendsHere) if you have any questions or concerns.*
I once had a guy I could talk to about philosophy and my life a lot. He helped me through a lot of stuff actually without ever knowing who I am really other than the stories we shared. It’s rare tho I think, I was very lucky but I hope you are too.
Maybe I'm an enigma, but I've had probably 5-10 really great penpals of the opposite sex (I'm a dude). None of these turned sexual. You just need to weed out the more mature people. In your posts, make it clear you're looking for a platonic friendship and at no point want something more. It will drive off a lot of those types. 

Keep looking for people. I know there are some great people out there hidden among the weeds.
Unfortunately, subs like these are often littered with people who treat it like a dating app. Sure guys looking for something strictly platonic exist, they're just vastly outnumbered, for the most part.
I'm a guy. I've wanted a platonic friendship with people here but it never works out. They never reply back beyond a day. So, it kind of goes both ways
I’ve found some platonic friends. Currently talking to someone who I have the most wholesome conversations with, it’s honestly so refreshing. A lot of guys though always manage to turn the conversation into something sexual and unfortunately afterwards, they just lose interest. 😅
I think people can look for multiple things here and behave/act accordingly and respect boundaries and maintain manners for other humans within the dynamic involved. Long story short, it's absolutely possible, but from recent experience there are a lot of hostile, judgemental, narrow minded, ill educated, classless and downright people on here (and I'm including ladies here). It makes you give up, as you think it's not worth the effort. Please remember all the scammers and OF trolls, picture sellers etc etc guys have to navigate too (nothing against OF or people making a living, but they lie and pretend and downright ignore what you say till you block them). Be patient, be nice, be rational, good guys will find you.
I have and he’s great. MANAGER MAN IF YOU SEE THIS 🤞🏾
I (male) had a platonic female friend for about 2 years, we talked all the time but I was randomly blocked on everything about a month ago. So yeah it can happen but just like everything in this sub it is rare as most people just don’t click
Literally no. They all the sudden start calling you pretty and sending sweatpants pov pics.
I (guy) was platonically friends with a British girl that lived with her BF. We’d just basically would talk about each other’s day to relax or unload, and or watch movies falling asleep on call just having fun every once in a while.

Been a long time since I spoke to her, things got messy and busy in life and I forgot to log into reddit or discord for a long time.

I feel like once you do find a good friend online, its a good idea to get their personal number so you don’t let life beat you over the head in forgetting people.
Guy here, usually only girls reply to me, both if I make a post or if I respond to one.
Never had problems beside ghosting, and never had any of the girls talk about something sexual, nor me because that's not what I look for here.
On the other hand, the one time I responded to a guy's post and he actually replied to more than one of my messages, he turned the conversation in a weird sexual fantasy.
So yeah, that's that.
yes
I've never once sent a sexual message anywhere on Reddit, and I honestly have no desire to.
I've made a few friends on here. Some platonic, some not. It's rare to keep friends long, though. I think that's only happened 3 times so far.
>i honestly dont know if i should blame myself

no

>or if its normal in this sub.

eh, that a tough one to give a direct answer to, but its a common complaint in general, not just this sub.

>Have any girls found platonic guy friends ? Or have had a platonic conversation? Are there guys in this sub who dont turn everything sexual?

Because I have platonic friends with women from subs like this- yes, yes, and yes. 


but before you ask, no, i have no idea how you could divine before the fact if a man will take the conversation off the rails into something sexual.
I think too many men are unreliable partners, be it for friendship, conversation, business, love, etc. I’m a man, and I’ve been unable to find and maintain guy friends my whole life. 

I’m an introvert, and somewhere on the asexual scale. For me I’m the most comfortable in intimate relationships with women as well as platonic friendships with women. 

Even so, it’s tough because in my experience women often assume men who are willing to be friends have ulterior motives (rightly so in many cases). Not only that, but my partner is not a fan of my having female friends, and past partners have been similar. 

I need deep, meaningful connections with people. Surface level stuff eventually bores me and I lose interest. If someone is keeping me at arms length because they’re worried I have an agenda to get out of the friend zone and make a move, the friendship won’t last. 

I completely understand why women do this, and how difficult it is to have male friends who are worth keeping around. Good luck and hope you find someone who exceeds your expectations!
honestly no. and i have yet to meet someone on here that has continued talking to me for longer than a week.
F24 here, I have more male friends than female friends. All platonic and i know them for over a decade. 

Yes, they are hard to find but they are out there!
I had a friendship like that, we were guy and girl. Super rare though
my IRL best friend (26F, i’m 26M) made like 5-6 guy friends here. she got very close platonically with them and i thought it was pretty cool.

but then a couple of them turned out to have feelings for her (but like one year after they started talking, so it’s not like these guys jumped the gun immediately) and she turned out to have real chemistry with one of them so she’s seeing him now. she’s still on really good terms with the rest and they’re some of the closest friends she’s ever got. 

so i believe it /is/ possible to get a platonic guy friend here.
Better off making friends of other sub pages that are to do with your hobbies etc here either you get ghosted or people message you but don’t know how to communicate
the few times i've posted in this sub, i didn't state my age nor my gender.

That made very few people text me, but most of those who did, I still talk with them today.
Hey, I have ! It’s possible, you just have to set your boundaries from the get go… I have this friend that we call each other when we have time, just to chill and it feels nice ! He respects that I have a bf and we can both joke around without it being weird or turn too sexual (flirty) ahahah. But it does help to have gaming friends, that’s where most of the non-sexual and funny guys are at ! 😂😂
I've found some as a dude. Which is cool. But most dudes i message on here to chat about things ignore me lol
I've never had an interest in making things sexual toward a potential friend, I've always wanted to have a platonic friend of the opposite gender because I just get along with girls better. It doesn't make sense how someone could say some perverted depraved shit to some random person on the internet who is genuinely trying to make a connection. They take advantage of the fact that there is a slight opening due to serious and/or fleeting loneliness, then decide to shit all over the prospect of a true friend because anything that isnt overtly sexual is apparently not worth any time or effort? How do they exsist this way? Why are they doing this? Its basically harrassment. And any girl who posts to these types of subreddits asking for a friendship, they are always at risk of getting harassed each and every attempt at a friendship. Is it even worth the attempt at the end of the day if theres going to be a slew of creeps trying to bait you to give their fucked up world view a sliver of attention? 

It really bums me out that there are so many weird guys. I've seen so many post about insurmountable creeps in these subreddits that I've just given up on even trying to find a friend of the opposite gender(or a friend of any gender for that matter) I just dont want to seem like a creep. I assume that once a girl posts to find friends, their dms are already flooded with perverts. Why would I want to pile on more distraction and confusion, to an already very sad scenario, even if my intention is good, I dont want to continue to add to the stress and nightmare of trying to find a friend on reddit. Also considering that a lot of people try to seem normal at first, then they betray your trust or try to coax you into something more sexual. It feels like as a male, if I end up talking to a girl, I'm just always on the chopping block, even if I'm not, it just feels that way to me. Everything I say is not trusted intill a lot of time has passed, in order to prove to them that I have no sexual intention or interest. And its exhausting to try to prove to someone that you arent a creep and that you could be trusted. When i just want to have a conversation, I'm just worried about how I'm perceived, and I'm tired of it. It makes me depressed and feel like I'm trapped trying to play this game. I have to make the best impression or I'm going to be seen as a weirdo. I just give up, no friendship is worth that amount of burden. It's better to me personally, to be alone and in pain, then have to be thrown around in every which direction by a bunch of random people who arent going to stick around and dont really care about you, just for a small chance that you receive one genuine friend. When there are so many untrustworthy people, I dont blame anyone for how they feel.

 It's not a safe place in this app especially it seems. You could find some gems but, I guess its up to you how much shit and harrassment you are willing to comb through to find someone even worth the effort.

Hope you find what you are looking for, sorry for the long doomed post but I just felt the need to say something.
I'm a guy, looking for friends. Lately it's been feeling like a lot of people I would have thought to be there for me haven't been. Trying to turn over a new leaf and make some new friends.
Off and on. It really varies
I've tried to have a platonic guy friend. I've also tried foe platonic gal friends. Neither seem to work out at all. For the record, I'm a guy.
Maybe some of us are truly a rare bunch.  One of my good friends have always said I’m in a league of my own.  It is so true most guys always tend to make everything sexual.  There is something fresh in genuinely talking to someone, the opposite sex, and getting to know them… like a good friend.   It is possible to have opposite sex as good friends.   Just like in making a friend, you both need to have things in common and from that, you can be open to talk about everything, the good and the bad.  I know of people who their best friend is the opposite sex.
I was the platonic guy friend to a woman I met here (or another friendship sub, can’t remember that many details) about 1.5 years ago. A few months later I fell in love with someone and she became one of my very few confidantes. Ultimately we had a fight though, and she said we weren’t a good match. Sometimes I miss her, but she was probably right about it.
I am a guy and I found a platonic female friend from here like 4 years ago and we still talk so I guess if this question was answered from her perspective, it would be yes.
I can speak to your question directly, however, I am a heterosexual guy who has many lady friends and not many guy friends. Assuming, that men like me can exist out in the wild, I would imagine they can exist here.

Not sure if your situation or why you are searching for friends on Reddit in the first place, but perhaps I could be one.

Regardless, I am sorry that you have had poor experiences here and I wish you the best on your search for new friends!
I am a long time platonic friend with a women I met here. It's rare it's possible. I am sure you will come across guys who want the same. good luck.
I found actually even two great guys that I like to consider as my good friends now
(32M) I can't say I have, but I'm also a guy, and I haven't made any lasting friendships on here, so I don't think anyone actually wants friendship.
Almost 2 years and going strong. Strictly platonic and I intend for it to stay that way.
I always felt like shit like that was stupid. How are you even going to screw through a screen online? Just seems dumb
I’ve met a few female platonic friends, I’m married and happy with my wife, so only ever look for platonic chats….

But I have many people who try and sell content to me, of which I have no interest so unfortunately it happens to a much lesser extent, to men also.
I once had a friend much older than me, who taught me the nuances of crypto and investments, and basically how money works in the background. Those lessons cost quite a lot but I got them for free.

There are quite a lot of good folk here, so don't give up it's always a trial and error analysis of life. 🤷🏻‍♂️
I volunteer
Well, at least I'm here to meet people and improve my english, so, I'm not interested in flirt with anyone, but my English is poor and I can't talk with other haha
heyy there , I'm 22M and honestly I am here for genuine people who connects for real and not into some lusty things I want networking and make new friends, if you interested then ping me up.
there are, but i wouldnt go looking on reddit. just from my experience and from reading other's.
Trust me, as a guy, I understand your pain. Even from my posts I get… undesirables which roam free and try enter my dms
I don't turn everything sexual😓
I sure have not found anyone , i am new at reddit maybe that's why but i have messaged a bunch of people to get no reply
I think its a mixed bag. I see a lot of posts following this trend of wanting to only talk, and i get it, but between desperate people and a decline in physical social interaction people forget where the line should be and go over it. Eventually they will learn but it does suck. Just gotta find the right person who isnt after that i would guess.
Similar to the ones of us who prefer people who are more than just their looks (I am a guy), demi-sapiosexual peeps out there, approaching someone respectfully, to get a conversation out of them that only involves what they post can be quite bland. 

I would like a subreddit where there are more "friendship first but open to more" posts but the focus is not only peacocks waving their genitalia around. Entice the mind, physical attraction is allowed (so you can share how you look like) but it must be sfw and people who cross the line would be banned. 

How cool would that be?
Yes, I did.
22M, Im platonic 🖐🏻
I gave up. To me there’s no such thing as “Male Friends” period since they always make a pass at me.
I'm 37m and only interested in platonic friendships but it's difficult. So I get it. 😅
There sure are people. But the creepy ones are more in number and motivation. 

DM me if you want a platonic friend. I am 31M and not looking for sex.
in my exp, most men do intend to turn things sexual and even the polite ones would jump at the chance. a few are polite and don't push for it. I think I've made maybe 2 platonic friendships from here. But a lot of ppl trying for more.   
I don't even get ladies replying to my posts which makes me sad :(   
I'd say, possible, but rare - funnily enough considering this subreddits title.
Guy here, even though you asked for comments from girls, you're in the hundreds now so... just in case this is helpful, and if not, easy to ignore. My answer to your post question is: Somehow only when the person is much too young for a romantic relationship. But personally I try to stay platonic pretty much all the time, believe it or not. To boot, the opening conversations are ALWAYS platonic. Often, though, it slowly changes, and I swear I'm on the same wave-length as you - I'm pretty sure it's the women on this sub that turn everything romantic if not sexual, but I'm open to find out what I'm doing, besides initiating the DM, which I've already heard I'm not supposed to do, but anyway... I don't understand how someone gets right into it in this sub without a VERY CLEAR prompt from the conversation partner.
Not every guy makes everything sexual but unfortunately so many do that it overshadows the ones that don’t originally I came to this sub to make friends specifically not find a romantic relationship of any kind but unfortunately that doesn’t really happen here I’ve long given up on that I don’t even know why I stay anymore tbh
Unfortunately, male creeps are aware that they can easily get away with sketchy stuff here. As a female, I would assume it's easy to give up on making male friends here, and equally easy to generalize males here. As a male, it's difficult to befriend a female, it's also equally difficult to friend a male. From my experience, only three people have added me. One a male of older age. Two females of similar age to me. One of which I've been conversing with for almost a year now. Everyone else has ghosted me, regardless of me contacting them or them contacting me first.
I'm sure women has it worse here. But there will always be people that you have to weed out as per your preferences no matter where you go. 


As a guy on dating apps you have to weed out women who are there for a free meal or just clearly looking for some ego boost or to pass the time. Same thing here, mofos be trying to sell their OF subs.


All you can really do is be upfront in your post what exactly you are looking for. Hell if you have a partner mention that too. I'm sure there'd still be dudes who'd reach out and make it sexual but call it a loss and move on at that point than engaging with someone who clearly doesn't value their own time let alone yours.
I did and he was a sweetheart. The first thing we said to each other was “I’m in a happy relationship, this will only ever be a friendship” and it was. He even asked for advice on how to propose to his girlfriend. The man lived on the other side of the world as well but my partner made me cut contact.
It’s rare but it’s definitely happens.
Its reddit after all its hard to find good people here tbh I'm a guy and whenever I post here it is either some creepy guy looking for sexual stuff or a girl lying about her age to talk to older guys or an OF creator wanting me to pay for their explicit pics i just wanted friends and i specifically mention in my posts that the person should be at least between 18 and 25 and no creepy stuff, OF stuff or lying about their age. It's hard to find those types of people but there are always good people here you just have to make sure you can read people and their intentions well enough to know what kind of person they are.
Yes
I've had probably a few dozen conversations with women from here and I never turned any sexual. Have had a couple of them go that way, but it's all been mostly platonic (completely from my side).
Me (26M) and my female friend talk since 3 years ago when we met each other from this subreddit.
Yess yess..we have been friends for more than 5 years...he's such a nice guy!
Its rare but they exist. I am one. First You have to be really secure and at peace and in control of self as a  as a guy. Second, you have to come to value that even if it does not involve romance or sex a woman friendship brings something unique and good that male friendships cant, esp. One where you both encourage the other.
I have the same problem with girls
Met many of them. Just depends on the way we handle them.. gotta be cautious that’s all
I’ve yet to find anyone guy or gal that hasn’t at some point turned things sexual.
im 24m and have strictly only been into platonic friendships. i hate that guys who view dms with a female as an open door to sexual conversations. it makes everyone else look bad. im sorry that those are the only types of people you’re getting. if you really do wanna be friends my dms are open, ik it’s a long shot, and strangers making promises never work out but i promise it wont be weird or sexual.
You can set your boundaries on this message where you say I don’t want anything outside of friendship. I made two friends, one male and one female
I'm a guy and found some decent people so far. But they are rare to come by. Also they all were 30+ and genuinely interested. Keep looking.
I think most guys are sexually unsatisfied. Try befriending married men. Not always but sometimes their sexual needs are fulfilled. And they can be platonic.
Yeah
Exactly, that’s why I don’t even try to look for it. Who these days has the energy to give somebody your time only for it to turn into something you never saw coming
Hey there.
While I haven’t poked around in this sub too much, I did make friends with a few girls via r/Needafriend , as a dude.
It appeared simply being able to acknowledge the issues with guys online—instantly sexual, looking for more than is offered, pushing boundaries, etc—was a step in the right direction, as the sort of guys to do such wouldn’t be too keen on conversing about it.
Meanwhile, I acknowledged such upfront, and said if my being a dude was an issue, I had no problem simply wishing the girl luck, and going about my way.

I hope that helps, or at least gives you hope for platonic relationships, because they are very much worthwhile.
Good luck!
probably not. I’m not gonna sit here and say I could keep it 100% platonic because I know I couldn’t…. But that’s probably why I say no. Who knows there’s probably a couple decent dudes who don’t think with their 2nd head
Yeah I found a great guy friend on here! He is super respectful and kind lmao I got lucky.
Is not ur fault silly, its just the app, its like trying to make friends on tinder lol
I'm a guy, and I've also had dudes get sexual in chat. I think most of these guys are just down bad
All my friendships with ladies other than my wife are platonic.
I am a guy and I've met several women off here that I haven't tried to sleep with
I actually have a whole friend group i made through reddit mostly guys. 

I also have a few longterm female friends so yes its both possible
Im a girl that occasionally looks for platonic friends on here, 8/10 times men become sexual or creepy in some way towards me, though i have had the very rare platonic male friend i tend to usually only dm other girls because of this and never have had a problem with other girls even lesbian/bi ones
Some of us are actually bored and new to town and just want company and someone to visit with
I'd like to say even as a guy posting for friends I do struggle with getting creepy responses from guys fairly regularly. But I do want to say I have made a few friends and there are a few of us out here that are just looking for genuine human connection but It seems that's the exception not the rule.
I would love to be a penal, and just be platonic if you were down for chatting. You can dm me if you want.
Holy crap... that's so sad. I mean we Don't know the context but yeah unfortunely some guys tend to do that More than theyll admite.
Have faith OP! What are Your fave hobbies?
Maybe it is the age group you are looking for. Older guys may actually talk without that need to feed their own ego. 

Hope you can find someone to talk.
I’m looking for someone platonic friends, male or female. Just want someone to nerd out with as my spouse doesn’t share my nerdy interest. I’m 27m though.
Msg me we can chat
Hey
Not gonna lie not clue what platonic means but I never turn anything sexual as I’m socially useless 😂
Talk to gay and/or asexual guys.
Yep!!
Once, is still very much a good friend ATM. 😁
Yeah, I’m a guy and I’ve been chatting almost daily with a friend of the opposite sex for about a year now. We are both late 20s so maybe that’s different since a little older but I dunno.
Found a few but they’re rare for sure
I have, and he's been one of my closest friends to date. As others have said it is rare very rare in fact, but if you want I'm willing to be friends just send a DM
I’d love to find a true friend here but no guy seems genuinely capable of that. 🤷🏼‍♀️
I've managed to become that with 2 ppl I met on here believe it or not
Try the chatrooms don't say anything about being a girl and as long as you're vibing you'll find one
I've made a very good platonic female friend on here (I'm 29M), but she's a lot more like a man then a regular girl.
I've found a couple, but I also happen to be a guy
I managed to make exactly one platonic guy friend on here several years ago. Unfortunately we lost contact :/ but it’s definitely possible!
Never. Unfortunately.
Just say.. that you will never ever share your pictures.. it should help a bit
We’re here just chilling, a lot of guys try hide their sexual intention which I thinks so weird, they will be friendly weeks, months and then one day will try pursue their “friend” and when rejected become really toxic, we are out there but honestly I’d recommend meeting people through tinder if your a girl, 99% of men on reddit are boys who are desperate for any slight sexual gratification
I tried and the conversation lasted .02 seconds. He was nice and it wasn’t sexual just, convo died off. 24F here though if you wanna chat!
My guy best friend and I met on Reddit. Not on this subreddit but the Snapchat friends one; can’t recall the exact subreddit. We’ve been friends since 2021 and have actually met up with him 3 times since. He lives in another state. Not once has there been any sexual conversations, even after meeting in person, and we have talked almost every day since 2021. We talk about every day things and life.

I would say I got lucky though, because I remember posting about looking for friends, and did get some requests from people looking to chat sexually or would just ghost me after a day or two.
There are but most women don't bother trying to also shuffle thru the garbage to find the decent.
I’m a guy looking for strictly platonic friendships here. Feel free to hmu if u need anything :)
It hard
This platform is unfortunately the most accessible for these types of people so it attracts them. I have made some good friends here. Only one of them have been a man. So many men here only want to flirt with women that it's actually difficult for ME to find a male friend as well haha
I've met some nice people from around here. Some only recently and some for a long time. There are good people here
I have. And girls also.. 
I’m a guy 38/m.
I don’t look for friends here other than for just random texts about random things day to day.
It depends on the age group you’re chatting with I think. Mid 20’s guys are *generally* looking for a hookup of some kind so any conversation with a woman has that goal in mind. This is coming from a 24 male. I’d be happy just to talk and make friends. If something developed great if nothing came of it, also cool. Just meeting people is something I’m trying to improve on.
I think it's probably particularly difficult because of the subset of men who are on here looking for friends (yes, I see the irony). I think platonic friends of the opposite sex are easier to find with people who have a well rounded social life and are not anxiously attaching to every new friend or potential friend they see. I think there are likely few on this sub who are in the former category.
Sadly the number of dudes that think this is a dating app vastly outnumber the actual guys who want to have a solid platonic relationship. It’s rare to find but hopefully one day you cross paths with someone like that.
Honestly I don’t dm anyone on Reddit really but I believe that’s it’s impossible for men and women to be friends it’s just we’re not biologically wired to be friends 99.9% of the time when men become “ friends “ with a women it’s because they find them attractive for women it’s possible to have male friends because they don’t get attracted to men the same way we get attracted to women. Now in very rare cases it is possible but usually it is when the man isn’t attracted to that women and has other options to consider having a friend but even then they might be attracted to them but that’s my opinion on the matter all this translates to lonely men online who don’t get attention from women irl so any interaction with women online is pleasing to these men.
No one response to me when I dm them. I usually talk about the same interests no response 😓
I love chatting about different stuff and have gotten some opportunities to do that on a purely non-whatever-term-refers-to-moving-past-friends. I'm just usually outside the age range most people look for. For reference, I'm pretty well locked in on the never find a life partner route. That's just the way it is, and I'm emotionally stable on that understanding, though I do have a need for social interaction and feeling wanted at times, so I look to socialize where I can with no expectation of advancement.

Besides, online romance and dating is fleeting and has too low a probability in working out for most people, and what I would be looking for, if I was looking for it, puts me in an even lower probability, so it's a waste of my time and effort to push past platonic.

I say all of this without any sort of ill content. If it seems that way, I understand.
I have found a handful of male pen pals, none of them ever tried anything. The best piece of advice is to post without giving your age and gender, just the regular post talking about your interests. Don’t give hints at your gender until you establish a good rapport. Chances are the men who just want to make women uncomfortable will give up long before then.
Me personally? I try not to be that way.  But I have a tendency to make over the top jokes that many find uncomfortable. Some have been sexual in nature, others may seem more violent.  But I’m also older than your age range.
Hey if you need a friend me and my wife always like to have a chatty friend.
Me! I’m 28 male just got married yesterday so I will just talk about how wonderful my wife is nothing sexual. AND as a bonus you know I’m a good guy because a woman married me! 

Just ask! I’ll send wedding photos. I’m in love with them!
I mean, if someone is looking for one, let me know. I'm down to discuss stuff so long as they're not too personal.
yuppp
ive made a male friend (i’m 17f) and he’s mad chill
pm me if you want to talk , we can share storys , 25 m 
I'm 10 years older than you, but yeah I've found a couple, but the friendships end up never really lasting too long and I always feel that if it was more of a sexual friendship, it would have...It really is what most guys want here and just most other places. You have to make it very super clear in your post before hand that you don't want anything sexual though. Like literally right at the beginning of your post title. I'm getting ready to take another shot at this too shortly.
I've reached out to a few people on here looking for friends, but never get a reply. I have zero sexual interests currently and literally just trying to make friends, but I suppose the females here are scarred by too many overly sexually aggressive guys. It's kind of tragic. If you are looking for a friend, I'd gladly entertain some friendly banter and deep conversation. That goes for anyone here.
I sent a dm I would love for you to give me a chance please
I’m mostly that plutonic guy friend


Ay we can join on Discord together and talk about movies,games and other interests

Heres my Discord ID if you wanna DM {Discord ID 548067150825521152} or search thesheksplay

:)
Natural convos on other subs tbh are probably better to make friends ngl
What happened to that connection?
You should try as female
Same here man lmao. Its crazy the stories i hear from my female friends💀
Weed out the mature? Do you mean immature?
I’m a female bag of testosterone was up
Maybe it's time to realise women are not real brother.
And before the hate brigade descend to stone me to death, I'm not suggesting myself here as the friend she is wanting, and I know I'm older thanks.....
It’s wild to me that the majority of dudes here seem to be like this
Some not? Why did it become not…
Finally. I mean... I like to meet with people i aint really good at keeping in touch from pure online means. But i am not going to meet up with people from the internet. (My ground rule tbh) So i aint really trying to make friends from here. But like wtf some dudes trying to do? Like... The person you keep harassing is probably on the other side of the planet. If she is even in the slightest chance into you how in the world are you planning to go through with it? Dumb as hell. Friends through the internet is ok and somehow manageable but online dating? Nah uh
That’s what it means
Sure, but us um, I don’t like to define myself, ones are fine too. Lol
Likewise as a guy feels like no gal is capable of that 🤷🏽‍♂️
It's because because you mostly comment on porn subreddits. It's a turn-off.
I'm sorry to hear that.  Wishing you luck in the future.
I’d say include your age, I don’t message anyone without their age because I don’t want to talk to a minor
This makes sense.
I could always make a throwaway and attempt. I'd be interested to see the difference. Although I'd feel weird catfishing for this experiment.
What?! I have a woman right here *traces the arm back to my own body* oh shit nvm
Some blossomed into non-platonic relationships.
Oh sound then 😅
Heh? Never have i ever heard of a dude failing to find females wanting platonic friends. Now i am curious. Like i failed in making female friends because they turned out to be not much of a friend but not because they weren't platonic. Met lately other female platonic friends and they seem legit unlike my old female friends. But still it wasnt because it wasn't platonic. So i am curious and genuinely asking. (Also no. I haven't made any friends here i am only talking about real people i met in real life)
Even when men are constantly complaining that they’ve been “friend zoned”? Really all that means is that she doesn’t look at you as dating material FOR HER, or that she values your friendship too much to risk messing it up.
Thanks. I'm starting to think people want me to post pictures of myself like a dating app or something 😂
Don't worry is not like they take a lot of days to do perv stuff on dms...like 1-3 days they could start with unsolicited "pics"
Do it for the science! And please report back
Welcome to the world of the con-masters (JK but it is a common phenomenon of catfishers. Yours has a greater goal so it is fine. They are used to it anyways, those who run purely on hormones)
I think you wrote that without realizing how silly it sounds. Also some guys friendzone women and they can’t handle it. Still chase after the guy. Doesn’t view as dating material for her is the same energy as I could do better 😊
I refuse to share pictures of myself untill I feel comfortable showing my face.  Don't let anyone pressure you to do anything.
Science is a liar…sometimes
Not being dating material for someone could mean that they don’t feel the chemistry, they don’t have things in common, they are diametrically opposed to important issues, they don’t have similar goals, one is determined to date someone within a certain age category and the other person is not in that category… … I’m not really concerned with how it sounds, these are just facts of life - ‘not intended to be judged, but there’s always someone who’s going to do it anyway. 😏🤷🏼‍♀️😁
I understand what you mean but I’m looking at the worse case scenarios which tend to show with guys being left tagging behind due to the girl dating up. But yours is more mature both adults understand where they lie
Any one else tired of girls “looking for friends” but really just selling OnlyFans?
Hey everyone, I’m a 26-year-old guy, introverted but trying to make meaningful connections here. I enjoy chatting about random topics, binge-watching shows, and just vibing with like-minded people. I’m not here for drama or anything, just looking to have some cool, genuine conversations and make some lasting friendships.

But recently, I've noticed a frustrating trend—girls posting about wanting friendships or deeper connections, only for the conversation to quickly pivot into promoting their OnlyFans. Don’t get me wrong, I respect the hustle and everyone’s got their thing, but it’s a bit disappointing when you think you’re building a real friendship, and it turns into a sales pitch.

It’s all good if you’re upfront about it, but pretending to be interested in a connection only to sell something feels like false advertising. Anyone else experiencing this, or am I just really unlucky?



Hey, u/lucifermorningst3r_! 

Say hello and add a friendly comment to another user's post on the sub while you wait for someone to comment on your post! You'll make more new friends that way! You're also more than welcome to [join our official Discord](https://discord.com/invite/9UuDpwBftk) and [Reddit chat channel](https://www.reddit.com/r/MakeNewFriendsHere/comments/13m77dt/join_the_official_rmakenewfriendshere_chat) to find friends!

As a reminder, we strongly recommend:

When someone contacts you, **review their profile** before responding. 

Help us make this a better community by becoming familiar with the [rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/MakeNewFriendsHere/about/rules/).

Report any suspicious users to the mods of this subreddit using Modmail [here](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose/?to=/r/MakeNewFriendsHere) or Reddit site admins [here](https://www.reddit.com/report). **All reports to Modmail should include evidence such as screenshots or any other relevant information.**

Thanks!


*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/MakeNewFriendsHere) if you have any questions or concerns.*
This whole sub reddit is fake with 95% is fake/bots
I have guys telling me to create one. The only thing i wanna do in my bed is watch Michael Kelso do stupid stuff on tv and snore like a tractor. Hahaha
Befriend a guy
I'm just wondering how many OF subscriptions they sell with this method.

I have encountered several like this.  
I'm not against women having OF, but as soon as they make a suggestion or reference to me subbing to them, I will either ghost them or tell them i'm not interested.
Thanks for bringing attention to this man. 
From one guy to another I appreciate it.
It must work, because they are all over this subreddit, I've had at least 6
Anyone else tired of how if you put "##f" in your header, all you get are people trying to get in your pants, even if you say in your post that you're in a happy relationship and ONLY looking for friends?
[deleted]
OF offers a bot service where you're not even talking to a real person. It's all AI, and they can choose any platform to market to. It's a shame, but it'll only get worse. Be safe out there folks
Noticed the same, usually checking their post history or profile age is a good indicator, not always but I've found it's still rare to have an actual person.
 Yes, like wtf stop wasting my time kinda sucks when I think it’s cool and then “ hey ur gonna think im weird but” bam of link
Bruhhhhh I'm a female and just experienced this.... I was confused  it wasn't her only but very ummm not pg pics that I didn't ask!!!! I haven't tried to talk to anyone after that
Facts
Everyone.
Have happend to me like 6 times
Yes, it's very frustrating.  You start to build a connection only for them to pull the rug out and suggest moving the conversation to onlyfans
aggree. those girls pff.
This really upset u?
same here bro, 90 percent are same
well I made that kind of post to find a genuine friendship, yet the men on my dm always trying to get it into something sexual. I swear some of yall men here lowkey looking for something sexual ONLY for free and thats why yall got irritated when you found girlies out here gatekeeping their "sexual" contents behind a paywall.
It’s happened to me so much on here.  It seems like they’ve taken over some of these subs.  And what’s more disturbing, I don’t think they’re actually girls.  It’s probably scammer dudes who create fake OF pages.
Man at least i know there are others. We should form a community or something lol
It frustrates me to no end when people do this. I gave advice to a woman who publicly posted about their issues and I thought it was sound advice. She responded and we got to talking only for her to drop the "dont think I'm weird but I have student loans" line I have heard at least 3 times then followed it up with her onlyfans...
Omg I hate it expecially on Snapchat when they don’t even bother talking just auto do you buy if you say no they block you. Or the ones who are obviously bots
Hey there! I'm 27f and absolutely not a bot. Wanna be friends? 😁
Befriend me, I'm not a bot or only fans person
I feel that. Had someone ghost me bc I wasn't interested in NSFW, when this is clearly a sfw profile. If you ever want a genuine friend, I'm here.
That's why I comment on posts. I never reach out and dm anymore because 99% don't respond. Funny enough, I haven't gotten an OF girl yet. But I'm assuming thats because I take a quick peak at their profile before I decide to comment.
This is a frequent problem that has happened and many people complain. Unfortunately, the lack of respect has been something that grows every day. If someone makes a post seeking sincere friendship or just a conversation because someone sends an OF link, everyone does what they want with their lives, but respect for others cannot be lacking. Providing these types of content should be done elsewhere.
No not all I met an amazing soul on reddit through this sub she is from America... we stopped talking now after 2 weeks but she was very authentic and honest person 💙
I’m sure this post will curb this from happening
Why I love selling my only fans here makes a killing.
Ever since covid ended _all_ of these subs went to shit tbh. 

The average user count is really low. And on top of that, the number of people that are low effort from the responses you actually do manage to get remain the same. 

Which makes it hard to find something long term that works out successfully.

Back when everyone was stuck at home, this was a semi viable place to make somewhat long term friendships online. But now that most people left it’s not nearly as good anymore. Sadly I still haven’t found in person friends yet, hence why I’m still here and not gone too yet. Probably why many people are that still use this.

But I think that is your main answer, most people that used to use these subs are gone, and the average pool of people to talk to is a lot lower than pandemic levels.
No because when you don’t send one they actually end up asking for it 😂
This literally happened with me today lol. I couldn’t resist the temptation lol
The weirdos ruin it for the people who genuinely just want to be friends
I honestly find it ironic. There’s so many men here looking for fwb, so of course girls with OF have flooded this subreddit. Not saying all men, but there’s enough on here that women believe there is a market. 

But I don’t even post anymore cause putting “##f” in my title makes me feel like I put a target on my back
I'm not in a relationship but I'm only looking for friends, other women in particular and it's hilarious how many men dm me failing to read my post. They just see "f" and immediately message.
So sorry that you have had experience like that.
The same shit happened to me just yesterday and guess what she told me “need to pay student loans”.
I do that too, but only if the post itself is interesting to me. Far too many people put just wanting to chat, but not what they like talking about or even what their favorite tv show is. I like starting things off from a point of common interests.
That happened to me too, she just kept posting pics without any prompting. I like anonymity but these people make me suspect everyone's intention.
frustrate*
its not an issue for me if a woman holds back sexual content, its an issue when they ONLY want me to pay for their sexual content and they dont want my content... of any kind.
Sure, would love to be. Can you dm with a brief intro ?
It happens everytime tho and then they get pissed when you tell them "no sorry, i don't actually sell pics of my butthole"  🙄
Just happened to me I told them I respected the hustle and they said fair dos and I blocked her
It's weird that exists subreddits for that, either selling of or looking for fwb, or any porn, that's something that reddit isn't lacking, but they still choose this sub to do their business even tho most of people(I hope) are not here for that
Yep, looks like we’re all being asked to paid their loans my guys happened here too
Right!!!!! Like bruh we where just talking about anime and movies how tf u move that quick
U just gotta block em..easy right?
Do you have a dog or a cat and a camera and some entrepreneurial spirit? 🤔
Well, I said that I ain’t interested in OF and down to just friends. She was like I don’t have much free time and wants to filter out people lol
I was giving her advice (she posted on another subreddit and I wasnt even making a move or anything) and she would reply normally like "I never thought of it that way" or something but attached a photo (sfw, but still "bedroom") and I was very confused until the OF link drop.

I just want people to not try selling me something I clearly dont want.
Yup, easy peasy.
My issue with them is that they are promoting it wrong they need to stick to a niche and not use Reddit
If u wanna talk, I'm here btw ( genuine friendship, no only fans)
They can upsell on Reddit no issue with that, but what they generally do is mislead people by saying I’m looking for friends.. 
I have also heard about scams going on here lol
Sure, would love to. Can you dm with a brief intro?
[F28] Hi so, a friendly reminder that I love you and I'm so proud of you 
Yup, no choice. Just accept it. You're loved and doing super great, even if it doesn't feel so  right now. 

Now have a good day ❤
Hey, u/the-mama007! 

Say hello and add a friendly comment to another user's post on the sub while you wait for someone to comment on your post! You'll make more new friends that way! You're also more than welcome to [join our official Discord](https://discord.com/invite/9UuDpwBftk) and [Reddit chat channel](https://www.reddit.com/r/MakeNewFriendsHere/comments/13m77dt/join_the_official_rmakenewfriendshere_chat) to find friends!

As a reminder, we strongly recommend:

When someone contacts you, **review their profile** before responding. 

Help us make this a better community by becoming familiar with the [rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/MakeNewFriendsHere/about/rules/).

Report any suspicious users to the mods of this subreddit using Modmail [here](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose/?to=/r/MakeNewFriendsHere) or Reddit site admins [here](https://www.reddit.com/report). **All reports to Modmail should include evidence such as screenshots or any other relevant information.**

Thanks!


*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/MakeNewFriendsHere) if you have any questions or concerns.*
I still feel terrible
Reading this made me hate myself more 😂😂😂
Did you come back dad? 😭
Taking things one day at a time have my bad and good days  but i hope you're doing alright appreciate this.
I really appreciate it, though like a lot of ppl have said just reading this doesn’t change what’s fucked up in the control room 😅 but I do appreciate reading this. And I hope it does reach the people who need to see it and can feel better from seeing it.
Thanks mom
You available for hard-core sex
Thank you kind soul 💜
I love you too, kind stranger on the internet.
Lol thanks
Those who speak the loudest usually hurt the most, so use some of that positivity for yourself
Hope you have good day 👍
You too! I'm proud of you!
Wish I had someone to tell me that daily
Nice try cops, I'm still not revealing my fight club location
Thanks
I needed this.
Got this in my notifications even tho I've never been  here before. So thank you, you're incredible too, and I hope you gona have an amazing day. Love ya too
Keep some love for yourself as well eh, there's a limited supply of that emotion lol
I feel pretty dam good
You’re loved too !
thank you kind internet stranger
Always enjoy a lot of that.😘
Wowww I love this hippie vibe!!
Thanks 🙏🏻
Ransoms on Reddit saying this to a whole community and I can’t even get my wife to say thanks 😅

Nice sentiment though. Not sure why some are giving you a hard time. 🤷🏻‍♂️
Hi
Message me mumma, happy to show just me before going any further
i needed this. thank you ❤️
💕
Thank u OP. That's sweet of you. Hope you're ok!!!
Thanks 🥰 I kinda needed that
❤️
you too man keep it up woo
You as well!
A lovely sentiment indeed. Appreciated 
Back to you❣️
Thank you very much. I needed a reminder from someone, and I am glad to hear both of these from you. DM's are open, and I also have Discord. Have a magnificent day yourself. You are loved and appreciated as well. 😎✌️
Really needed to hear this today. Thank you.
Thank you, I needed that 😊 have a wonderful day!
❤️ ❤️ ❤️
Thank you, really needed to hear those kind words today…
Thanks mom 🥲
I needed some love today, thank you.
Good try feds, I'm still not going to pay my taxes
Hi please message me
Thank you☺️
Aw thank you
Thanks  love 💕 wishing you the same 🤗
Aww thank youuu 🩷
Much appreciated:)
Hi
dm me
Right? Oh my depression is cured…

😑
ya, this post def looks like a trigger for mentally ill...
That's okay, you're still loved by me
Why this comment hasn't been promoted more is beyond me. All you guys making fun of OP should find a new perspective, and that's exactly what the post is trying to give. Fuck the negativity
Is this Bob?
It's okay, not everyone is used to kindness
Exactly, I have this thing for years.. how a post can fix it
Its okay it doesn't bother me
Never Give Up! I met my best friend in this sub, and now we're married
Ok, to be sure that is NOT the purpose of this sub! Please don't come looking for love- I didn't. 4 years ago I posted in the wake of my brother's death just looking to talk and connect with people. And this person messaged me very distraught about his own situation and we just talked and talked (via the reddit chat bc I didn't have discord yet- crazy, I know).

We blabbed for hours and hours and I was like hey I live in Austin, where are you? I mean, this is an international sub. He could've been ANYWHERE. But he was in Austin too. Wild. Let's go get coffee!

Four years ago. Four of the loveliest, most exciting, heartfelt, fun-filled years. Lots of ups and downs with covid and then the epic ice storm. But we pulled through, all the stronger for it. And honestly I think our strength lies in that very first reddit conversation because we were so open and vulnerable. So, don't give up folks. Your friend is out there and you have to keep trying, keep posting, keep replying. And it sucks sometimes to be open when other people aren't ready for that. Or worse, they want to go right into NSFW waters. Friends don't do that!

So that's our story and I wanted to share. To keep your hopes alive! If you're feeling down and need a friend, I'm happy to msg. But if I'm not your cup of tea- please keep on, and find your good friend. Don't give up!
Hey, u/chiggum-leg! 

Say hello and add a friendly comment to another user's post on the sub while you wait for someone to comment on your post! You'll make more new friends that way! You're also more than welcome to [join our official Discord](https://discord.com/invite/9UuDpwBftk) and [Reddit chat channel](https://www.reddit.com/r/MakeNewFriendsHere/comments/13m77dt/join_the_official_rmakenewfriendshere_chat) to find friends!

As a reminder, we strongly recommend:

When someone contacts you, **review their profile** before responding. 

Help us make this a better community by becoming familiar with the [rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/MakeNewFriendsHere/about/rules/).

Report any suspicious users to the mods of this subreddit using Modmail [here](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose/?to=/r/MakeNewFriendsHere) or Reddit site admins [here](https://www.reddit.com/report). **All reports to Modmail should include evidence such as screenshots or any other relevant information.**

Thanks!


*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/MakeNewFriendsHere) if you have any questions or concerns.*
This will definitely encourage a lot of people on here which is bad. A lot of people here are looking for friends secretly hoping it develops into something more
Lucky, meanwhile i have yet to find anyone from socal yet😭
I actually talk to this girl that met her current boyfriend through either this subreddit or another like it. Idk if love is a good goal, but you can definitely make friends.
Happy for you!!! 🥰
If I got married on here I would be with an Indian scammer who’s 43 years old
This is so sweet! I'm so happy that you both found each other--a love story both near and far! Make each other happy, and I wish you all the happiest years to come together. :)
Same here we were friends for several years and he moved states to be with me. It does happen and it starts with friendship.
Every time I talk to someone, they ghost me. So, I’m happy for you.
I believe it, i met 2 wonderful people here. It didn’t end up but still i had a good experience and well lesson learned.
I appreciate the good intent but i think you’ve just ruined the sub for a lot of people with this post lmao
awwww i love hearing stories like this.... happy for both of you ❤️....and hooe you guys hv a wonderful life ahead ❤️
This gives a ton of hope. Woah that’s fun
[deleted]
Yeah well. Thats luck I guess? Not everyone has it haha but Im glad gor you:D
This is beautiful!
Soooo beautiful❤❤
This is beautiful! Thanks for sharing :)
Great story.
Congratulations 🎊🎉🍾🎈 and Many Blessings to you both!!
Happy for you both! ☺️❤️
More success stories we can do itttt
Congratulations 🥰✨
Aww this is so wholesome!!
Met the woman Im going to marry on here, almost a year ago to the day! Just clicked instantly, and she lived relatively close by - so I think there are a good few of us who have an awful lot to thank this subreddit for :D
Dam, most the people i meet in this sub are not from my state 😭
I met one of my best friends off one of these subs and we hang out often and have great times together. I do think 99% you won’t get on with someone, it is just have it is but the people you do find can definitely be worth the effort.
I have a friend that's been talking to me for one year, still going strong.
Congrats !
That’s iconic
We need more statistic data to make the reality objective.
Wow.
Fuck i wish i was that lucky. Atleast we r both in europe 😬
Well, I'm not into romantic stuff as far as i can tell. Anyway, what's this ice storm?
Paramedic and soldier, whose irresistible charm and adventurous spirit make him the ideal Netflix and chill companion. With a physique that can't go unnoticed and a passion for saving lives, I bring both excitement and warmth to your evening. If you're looking for a mix of intensity and relaxation, Im your go-to guy for a night of sizzling chemistry and enjoyable Netflix binging. 🤠🇺🇸🍑🍆🫡😎😜❤️😁
You're encouraging people simply by this post trying not to encourage them. In other words, you really didn't think this post thoroughly through
awwe that’s adorable, goals tbh
glad you two are happy :3
[removed]
I gave up and haven’t even posted here 🕺
You've got this! And if you get low by repeatedly reaching out, take a break and do some self-care and then jump back in. It's so draining to keep trying and trying
Wait I'm in socal.....
Lmao
I do agree that it's difficult. And perhaps in recent years even more so. I posted a few times before with little interaction. (As did he, with varying degrees of replies) 

But when my brother died I was determined to talk to as many people as possible. The alternative was too dark to consider. Eventually the chats I had fell away. Busy lives, differing interests, not in the same place in life, etc. Except my now-husband. We still talk about meeting here and the ridiculous odds of even being in the same city. We have no other interests that would've aligned and brought us together (Except maybe our love of pets). I'm into gardening, plant based eating, have a kid, and read read read. He's into gaming, loves meat eating, no kids, and prefers watching shows to reading. 

But the inital connection over loss, and subsequent revealing of our true selves made us care so deeply for the other. We had daily check-ins to make sure the other was even eating. And doing normal self-care stuff. Brush your teeth today? True friendship things. 

Once we established that we were caring individuals it was so easy to listen and ask loads of questions about online games I'd never heard of. (Eventually) screen-sharing so I could watch him play. And him being invested in the epic trilogies I was reading. Asking how the characters were progressing. Which was my fav, etc etc.

So, all that is to say is that I have no clue what the formula is for making lasting friendships here, except that you have to try.. and keep trying.
I feel you, bro. I get the same thing happen to be 80% of the time BUT I have recently met some very awesome people. One in particular has been an absolute rock in my life in a very short space of time. If i can keep these few people in my life as friends, it will be worth the 50+ DMs that never go anywhere. Keep reaching out, it's a numbers game.
I love this for you!
Aww yay! I'm happy for y'all. I have a friend that I've managed to talk to for that long too!! We celebrated our Friend-iversary in Oct!
Awesome
And I am delighted for you too :D and everything you said is spot on; be your normal weird self, dont be put off if it doesnt happen right away, and dont be creepy!
28F, what’s your guilty pleasure song? 
Hiiiiii! I’m Kate, 28F. Looking for long term friends or just someone one to talk to, to pass the time. So, Everyone has an guilty pleasure song, what’s yours? Let’s chat! :) x
Hey, u/madeofstardust4! 

Say hello and add a friendly comment to another user's post on the sub while you wait for someone to comment on your post! You'll make more new friends that way! You're also more than welcome to [join our official Discord](https://discord.com/invite/9UuDpwBftk) and [Reddit chat channel](https://www.reddit.com/r/MakeNewFriendsHere/comments/13m77dt/join_the_official_rmakenewfriendshere_chat) to find friends!

As a reminder, we strongly recommend:

When someone contacts you, **review their profile** before responding. 

Help us make this a better community by becoming familiar with the [rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/MakeNewFriendsHere/about/rules/).

Report any suspicious users to the mods of this subreddit using Modmail [here](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose/?to=/r/MakeNewFriendsHere) or Reddit site admins [here](https://www.reddit.com/report). **All reports to Modmail should include evidence such as screenshots or any other relevant information.**

Thanks!


*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/MakeNewFriendsHere) if you have any questions or concerns.*
A disturbingly high amount of Nickelback songs
Owl City - Fireflies lol
Mmmbop - handsom. I'm ashamed
It’s all coming back to me now - Celine Dion
None. For I feel no guilt. The one I get dinged for the most though is for listening to Carly Rae Jepsen unironically. Heart is a Muscle, Let’s Get Lost. She has great songs. o/
Save a Horse (Ride a Cowboy) by Big & Rich
Party in the USA by Miley Cyrus
smack that akon used go listen to it on mp3 player back in the days lol
Blurred lines. Reminds me of the best summer of my life 2013
Closer by The Chainsmokers
Last friday night pluggnb 🫣
“Seal the Deal” by Volbeat
Rockstar - Nickleback
Hips don't lie
Gangnam Style
What a wonderful world
Only real answer is My Heart Will Go On
Disturbed- the game
Scene Girlz - Brokencyde. Makes me start dancing and laughing immediately.
"Around the World" by A Touch of Class
One More Light by Linkin Park
Every Time We Touch by Cascada
Barbie Girl; I will never apologize for my love for that masterpiece
Kiss me by sixpence none the richer
Unwritten - Natasha bedingfield
How you remind me- Nickelback
Anything by Nickelback
Always - Bon Jovi 😂😂
Abba: waterloo
Anything by Abba, I both hate it, but musically it's great
I was mowing earlier with headphones on and enjoyed The Three Little Pigs by Green Jelly far more than I should admit!
You drive me crazy- Brittany Spears
Maroon 5 I can't stop thinking about you. Would love to chat
One Last Kiss - Hikaru Utada
I saw the sign — No Doubt
I’d say the great escape by boys like girls 😅
30F, huge metal head... dangerous woman by Ariana Grande is a whole bop. I'll replay that song every time
Definitely Love Song by Sara Bareilles
Lady by Mojo
Got obsessed with it in high school. Every time I hear it now it always gets me going.
Synapson - Hide Away (feat. Holly)
Hi Kate!

Lately its: the offspring - the kids aren’t allright
😎
Party in the USA-Miley Cyrus
Good question, it's Iris for me by the goo goo dolls x
Ken Lee 🫣🤣🤣 also, Anastacia left outside alone
Im not living without out you by jennifer miller
oh, it's one from my country. don't really know if it's really a guilty pleasure though. what's yours?
Midnight healing by gene deer

Tinder love by Aaron Mcbee
Guilty... Milow- You and Me.

This song is borderline creepy, but damn if it isn't a guilty pleasure. I hate it but I love it.
Xana-baby blue
Buy Me A Boat - Chris Jansen
Hahaha my horse broke my toes by Loubalin
It's a guilty pleasure cause they're super catchy and dumb but basically any Glorb song
Sweet child of mine g&r
Dirty talk - Wynter Gordon
Electric Avenue.
The Sailor Song by Toybox. It's got mad 80s energy and it's about being a pirate; I will never not enjoy it.

Bonus: Butterfly by Smile. Yes, I will blush if it comes on when someone else is around lol.
Jameson- Jay Sean lol
Conga - Miami Sound Machine 🫣
Citizen Soldier - I'm not okay
Whiskey lullaby 😭

The night they drove ol Dixie down - the band 

The phantom of the opera 🙈 Sara brightman

And I am telling you I'm not going - Jennifer holliday
Gucci Flip Flops by Bhad Bhabie. I listen to it even more, specifically during my 7am commute, since she's had a kid so she can support herself
To many to even think of but I’d say from the most recent song I just listened to is by; I love a rainy night by Eddie rabbit
Electric Love...I know that's one that a lot of people don't like. Lol
Broken cycle....n a few more
If I’m in my feelings, Lord Huron - The Night We Met
Any other time, Say It - Illenium Remix
The Perfect Mistake - Cartel
My Truck- Breland
Ahem. Vocaloids.
Midnight Pretenders - Tomoko Aran

Such a vibe at night or on a rainy day. Love cruising to this track when I have stuff on my mind
Daft Punk - One More Time
Darling Nikki by Prince. Musically I think it's a great song but the guilt can't be avoided. Prob not exactly the kind of guilt OP was talking about but I feel I have to be honest. We're here to make friends, so honesty seems like a decent start.
I never feel guilty about hearing the songs that I like. Last time I started busting out Adeles “Someone like you” while I was driving out with my nieces and I noticed a cute gurl and her boyfriend staring at me from their car smiling. I turned to them and sang louder and even towards them and they began singing with me! 🤣 My nieces were laughing so hard. If I want to hear something, I don’t care, I will play it. 🙌🏻
Lemon - NERD
Deacon Blues by Steely Dan
"Too Loud" - Mina Tindle

https://youtu.be/MT5DDXQhZ5k?si=NrhbhaWCSxSPWbZz
I walk alone- saliva 
WWE Wrestler Batista
Banger of a theme song 🤌🏽
Mga Lagi tugtugan na dami ulit sa kotse pag traffic:
Sicko Mode- Travis scott
Rich Baby Daddy- Drake
 DAMN album- Kendrick Lamar
Fuck Buddy- Ex B
Need You- Ex B
Seven- Jungkook
Take the long way home - Supertramp
All Saints - Pure Shores
LUNCH Billie eilish 😍
Hanna Montana - This is life
Anaconda- Nicki Minaj 
 Chrisean Rock
Barbie- Jaidyn alexxis
You can dm me anytime Kate, am always looking for new  friends :)
Elephante - Black Ivory
Steve Jablonsky - Arrival To Earth
Linkin Park - Leave out all the rest
Currently or in general? Currently it's the "Schreien! Turbo Remix", but in general, a song I can always vibe with is Electric Avenue.
Like a stone - audioslave. My favorite song from them 😌
Be Prepared- Benjy Gaither

If you know you know
2 become 1- spice girls
I had a one direction phase and I still love to belt it out to “steal my girl” in my car
Hoist the Colors.
Lady In Red - Chris de Burgh
california gurls
Anti-Hero by Taylor Swift. 😳
That christmas song by lil nas x and dont stop believin
Airplanes by B.o.B
Hanuman Chalisa 🗿🗿
Careless whisper - George michael
Somebody is my pleasure song
I Want It That Way - Backstreet Boys
dance monkey
Hot mess, cobra starship
The Foxy Shazam cover of Drain You.
Good Lookin' - Dixon Dallas (where are my fellow gays????)
When a woman loves
NYSYNC and Justin Timberlake and this is coming from a metalhead
Not really sure if it counts as guilty pleasure but Stars from Les Mis.. and it has to be the Phillip Quast version. I can't with any other version
Gomenne gomenne
El punto final
Onerepublic - apologize
Party in the USA
Sometimes these start out as pleasure but later become painful because I can't get them out of my head.
High amount of star wars duel of the fates, lonely island, and more to go lol
Fill me up anthem- Gus dapperton
Bet on it- high school musical 2
Pass The Dutchie by Musical Youth! so good lol
Inbox me
Mirrors by Justin Timberlake and Sex is on fire by Kings of Leon
Anything NSync XD I was really into the NSync vs Backstreet Boys 'drama' in the 90s/00's.
ANGORA HILLS!!! I could listen to that song on repeat lol
The soundtrack of Cars, some japanese songs. And Get Down from the Backstreet Boys
The playas manual ramirez. Ain’t guilty bout it doe
I unironically like a few sea shanties, Johnny Come Down to Hilo by Longest Johns and My Son John by Smokey Bastard are jams that always go off for me
Samantha Fox - Touch Me
Avril lavigne- boyfriend
Emptiness - Gajendra Verma

i remember when this song released people told a backstory behind of it.

It goes like this:

There was a guy who had cancer and he used to love a girl. But the girl didn't love him. She didn't know about his disease, that he had cancer. But when the guy was dying, he sung the song for the love of his life.

Then he died.

End of story.
Heretic from avenged sevenfold
Gimme shelter - rolling stones
Peach scones.

Hongo × Hongo


There are more....
I usually listen to Husn by Anuv Jain, you should definitely try it. He's an Indian indie singer.
Hybrid theory through meteora..
Video killed the radiostar!?
I'm a metalhead and I love Britney Spear's Work Bitch. I don't think it's a guilty pleasure. More inspiring than ted talk. Lol
Fragged Aht by Wokeups. I think it’s a great song but I could definitely see the vocals turning people away from it. 
liar, shameless, fortnight
I will just post lots of songs here. Lana del rey-live or die, cigarettes after sex- tejano blue, club 8-kinky love, inxs- afterglow, saajan saajan
Low key love to blast “I’m on a boat” by the lonely island whenever I make it to Florida 🤣
Payphone
Probably Joey Valence and also a 21 M looking for friends in sac
Jonas brothers - shelf but no guilt at all 😁
How’s It Gonna Be - Third Eye Blind
Listen when you’re in a relationship you have no business being in…..
“Where we used to laugh
There's a shouting match”
Damn why im saying this here but alot of hardcore and were done
Too many but one that’s been stuck in my head a lot lately is Santaria and My Monster and Me lol
From HIM (now VV. Al least the lead singer) ‘Right Here In My Arms’
Mmmboop
&
sheryl crow all i wanna do
Southern nights, Glenn campbells version
Outerspass - Frosty 🥶💎
Could use a good recommendation
There's a lot of good ones
Look at this photograph
Same + stuff like Koven - Telling me. I'm very into metacore/deathcore, so I rarely like songs like these.
Fireflies is hands down the best guilty pleasure song, especially for our age group lol
This song on  🍄 is out of this world!
HxC kid as well but I love songs like You Spin Me Round from Dead or Alive, Take on Me from A-Ha, in short a lot of New Wave and synthpop.
And the unavoidable 2000's "white girl music" (like So What from Pink)
YOU WOULD NOT BELIEVE YOUR EYES
The best answer so far lol
I absolutely love owl city, the puns.
THE PUNS!
What the heck is that, ma brotha
Alright another banger in my eyes Metro Station - Shake It
Anyone else get it as a freebie from apple?
Dammit. I lived through them and just seeing that got it stuck in my head.
Don't be. It's tremendous.
You don’t just sing this song, you perform it. It’s my go to karaoke song haha
Was literally about to comment this one!!
That song is great
100% this!!!
brokencyde was an era lmao
you have guilt for this why!??! lol
i wholeheartedly concur lol
Ooh! I wouldn't have thought of that, but that's a good one!
Oh my god girl same….. That song is a whole other vibe
love love LOVE this song …aaaaaand now it’s stuck in my head 🥲
This one. It’s been in my liked songs ever since I saw that hazbin hotel animation with that youtuber, forgot his name 🫣
awww, goo goo dolls 🥹
Hey! I listen to Metal and Gothic music and also listen to NSync and Backstreet Boys lol
I'll dm you one
Every time it makes me laugh
Ima HxC kid, but don’t mean some of the softer stuff ain’t bangers lol
Mine used to be My Heart will go on as a teen, I feel you 😂 it’s
Great minds think alike ;)
So what is your guilty pleasure song?
Nice to meet another person of culture!
Seriously lol!
I listen to a lot of metal and punk, when the album came out I wasn't sure how I felt about it and most of the songs in the album are kinda meh. But, One More Light was the one song I couldn't stop listening to
It's so jaunty!
I started liking it because it was EVERYWHERE on the memes, it’s just really catchy
How did your eyes get so red?
Honestly most Celine Dion songs make great karaoke songs haha
Daft Punk - One More Time 😆
I guess
Ashes is super good too, Celine has always been amazing
extremely fair; surprise retracted lol
And what the hell's on Jody's head?
And this is where I grew up
I think the present owner fixed it up
I never knew we ever went without
Most of the men in this subreddit are infuriating
This subreddit is for casual, platonic socialization. Yet almost every man in this subreddit ignores that purpose and will only speak to other users if they’re girls they can try and flirt with. People who do this - what exactly is your thought process? Almost every single chat request I send to other guys looking to chat and kill some time gets declined because they see I’m a guy too. If that’s what you’re shopping around for, get the hell out of here and into the NSFW subreddits already, jfc, not everyone is looking for that kinda action and you’re just ruining the spaces meant to separate the platonic chats from the non-platonic ones.

I’m not even asking for DMs here, I just needed to vocalize my frustration 

/rant
Hey, u/TheSmithySmith! 

Say hello and add a friendly comment to another user's post on the sub while you wait for someone to comment on your post! You'll make more new friends that way! You're also more than welcome to [join our official Discord](https://discord.com/invite/9UuDpwBftk) and [Reddit chat channel](https://www.reddit.com/r/MakeNewFriendsHere/comments/13m77dt/join_the_official_rmakenewfriendshere_chat) to find friends!

As a reminder, we strongly recommend:

When someone contacts you, **review their profile** before responding. 

Help us make this a better community by becoming familiar with the [rules](https://www.reddit.com/r/MakeNewFriendsHere/about/rules/).

Report any suspicious users to the mods of this subreddit using Modmail [here](https://www.reddit.com/message/compose/?to=/r/MakeNewFriendsHere) or Reddit site admins [here](https://www.reddit.com/report). **All reports to Modmail should include evidence such as screenshots or any other relevant information.**

Thanks!


*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/MakeNewFriendsHere) if you have any questions or concerns.*
finally someone spoken the truth... I honestly just needed a friend to talk to but no-one actually want to be just friends in this sub. It's always be ghosted by people or get ignored.
I once posted r/lonely about my birthday and 3-4 reached out to my dm referring to me as a girl even though i didn't mentioned anywhere my gender and i'm a man.
I’m a woman but I’m really glad to see this. Most of the proposals on here seem so disingenuous. I just wanna make some friends man. People to chat it up with- without getting sexual. 
Sometimes I’ll see a post I find maybe interesting and when I visit their profile- it’s posted like 95 times in the last 24 hours. 

But anyways I guess not an advertisement for myself but I’m into art and horror and creating and film and music and video games and I’m super low maintenance
the only response my posts have ever gotten is a research study about the troubles men face with making friends online and in person.
Yeah it ruins the experience for regular men too. Though tbf a lot men won't message me either unless they're gay. Lol.
[deleted]
It’s really sad tbh. Like they’ll say they are lonely and want friends of any gender, but I find that just to be a lie to not get criticism from only wanting to talk to women. At the very least just be honest and say you only want women to respond to your post, so that the other guys actually looking for friends don’t waste their time on you.
So glad you've pointed this out.. I wanted to have a simple friendship, just texting about anything at all - and almost every message I got was from men who were either saying upfront that they were looking for something sexual or the conversation eventually got sexual of flirty (I explicitly mentioned that I have a bf and have NO interest in anything of romantic/sexual nature) 
The only woman who messaged me was also mentioning some weird fetish stuff in the first messages and I got so creeped out I don't even want to message ppl back anymore

I'm no hater of either gender - BUT, PLEASE, STOP MAKING IT ABOUT GETTING FREAKY FFS

I'm glad that I'm not naive like before, but many autistic women like myself could fall into these traps easily and get exposed to some very weird shit
Also the blatant ignoring of “female only please!” And men still message a woman seeking only women friends is a clear indication of what they want 🫠
Tbh at this point I'd actively discourage ppl from posting here. 95% of guys are only here to flirt with you and sure it sucks... but it's the other 4% that will go along and pretend to be your friend for days or even weeks until they feel like they built enough cred to flirt and creep on you that are much worse. You basically can't trust anyone who messages you from here lol unless you talk to them for months and they're still cool. It's just a huge mindfuck

But im still rooting for everyone who wants to try for the 1% who are cool

And FYI everyone: nobody believes that youd ask any of your male friends for a selfie in the first 10 messages because you "have a hard time talking to someone when you don't know what they look like".
I once had a guy send me a pic of his ass as soon as I accepted his request. I've also had 85% of the guys try flirt with me. It's why I don't like sending selfies. Because it seems to set them up for flirting. I know not everyone like this but when you have to put your hand in a bag fuck of poop to find a diamond you end up wanting to stop looking. I still have faith there are still good men out there who just want friendships but I am more cautious now
And as a guy it sucks i rarely get dms because other guys ruin the experience. It sucks ass I just want some homies no matter the gender or age.
For sure true. I’ve only ever wanted friends male or female and it almost always ends up with me having to cut them off because they get inappropriate.
Yeah, this is a problem that I’ve come across. I have been asked for pics before and had to tell these men that they’ll just have to fall in love with my sparkling personality instead. As you can expect, I was ghosted right away lol. I want more friends in my group to hangout with, watch movies, and play video games, I’m not interested in dating or flirting.
Ugh, I know exactly what you mean. Most guys who who got into my dms on here were either incredibly "flirty" or Cleary just pretending to be interested in friendship and immediately ghosted after asking me if I was interested in them, and me telling them no. It's so gross. I'm grateful for the 1 or 2 men I met that didn't do that, though.
Most of the men are thirsty fucks. 

Most of the women are either bots or ghost you within 72 hours. This sub just sucks all around.
Reddit has become hard to chat on, period. I have met platonic male friends through this sub, but I believe I would have a lot more if I didn’t have to filter through the literal hundreds of DM’s from those with other intentions. It gets exhausting & overwhelming. Especially when the conversation starts off normal just to realize it was all a ruse. 

It’s also seems impossible for a girl to meet girl friends here. My inbox is 99.9% men, which I don’t mind since my interests align more with guys but I would love to talk horror, games, music, & books with some awesome girls once in awhile. I need a weird & nerdy bestie!
Also bfr, if a GUY posts "I prefer if girls text me" 100% they want to flirt and stuff
It sucks so bad as an autistic and energetic guy myself, I'm just genuinely a happy and talkative person who purely wants friends. Hate how other guys have to ruin it, creepy people are the worst.
It sucks, especially when you’re texting and mid convo their like “are you hot” or “can I get a pic”. What is so hard about the word FRIENDS. Seriously just want to text some chill people.
Don't worry. I don't speak to anyone. I don't even know why I'm here.
I hear ya pal.  I message some dudes and get the most bland...boring conversation I've ever seen.  I've messaged women and half of them have an only fans account or want money from you.  The rest ghost.  80% don't reply on both sides.
I don't respond to recently made, sus accounts with no karma
Happens for gay men, too. everyone just wants to trade dirty pics and jerk off. I just want to talk to people. why is it so complicated?
Honestly, I've just given up on these friendship subreddits.  
Seems that a lot of people in these subreddits don't really want to make friends.
Not just guys. As a guy, I've had several women respond to my posts, and as soon as I mention my fiancee the ghost. Like yeah, this is for platonic friends.
Female here. Two words. 

#Thank you
I dunno, I've had the same experience with women on here too but nowhere near the amount my wife's gotten from guys. We don't mind a bit of playful flirty banter, but some people just don't really understand the word, no. 🤷 I think this is like a microcosm of the real world, people will act honestly here because of the anonymity associated with the. I hate it because there's so many girls and women on here looking for positive interactions and the bulk of guys here are usury. And looking for things they have no business looking for either here, or in the age ranges I've heard about being harassed.
For me personally, I've had basically only a couple of female friends in my life, and want to specifically make friends with some girls purely for only platonic reasons.

I have no aspirations or desires to have a relationship, in fact, recently I managed to find a girl through /r/GamerPals by looking through profiles to find a post made by a girl, again, because I specifically wanted to be friends with a girl and just hang out, brush up on not being autistic around one.

I never made any kind of advances, I talked about her relationships, supported her, never made any kind of indications I was looking for something more than a relationship.

Long story short eventually she ended up admitting to me she liked me more than a friend, and I, like an idiot went along with it because I thought maybe it could work.

Eventually it fell apart, in part because she realized she was gay, in part because a lot of my shortcomings really are not fit for a relationship, and never will be, I was aware of this before we became friends, but I gave in to the fantasy, and ended up being hurt, again, despite the fact I was acting purely as a friend and never flirted or anything like that.

So yeah, I'll admit I find it pretty creepy myself when I look through people's profiles to find a girl, but the truth is, I already have plenty of dude friends, and I just want a platonic, close friendship with a girl, where we can joke, hang out, be close, but without an actual relationship, because it's just too much of a hassle.
Happy to chat :)
I feel like this is posted every month
what are the nsfw subreddits pls
Bro I legit can’t make a friend, men or women
I don't know what's up with it either. As a man, my other class mates always had this culture where they had to pray on every woman they talked to. Even if a woman doesn't want that. 

I think the moment a women talks to them, they think it's time to push boundaries and *get in*.

I also imagine this is a high entry level subreddit where lots of new to reddit people pop in thinking they'll meet women. 

It's completely ruined this subreddit. I grew disgusted with its predatory user base a long time ago.
I agree with you 100% but with that having been said those guys being called out for doing this isn’t going to change anything. Yea, sure, maybe some guys do find it easier just to talk to women but I agree with you that 9 times out of 10 they just want to flirt and that it’s not as innocent as they want you to believe. It’s annoying for people that do just want to make some new friends and I’m guessing/assuming that it makes it equally or maybe even more so annoying for women that just want to make new friends too. 

I’m 35M and I’ll chat with you if you’d like. 👍
I have received more unsolicited pictures of weina here than I have on subs where you'd expect to.
Sincerely, a dude who is very apparently a dude, and has no interest in unsolicited meat stick.
It's called lack of respect for others
Finally a post like this getting attention on this subreddit for the greater good. These men are most often teenage to middle-aged citizens that streak romanticizing because of the impersonation of it through media influence. Due to the factors of the worlds “terms” by society and social media, society has shifted to be more about guys paired up with a bunch of cute girls. Other guys always feel more confident and trigger these guys on here when paired they are jealously showing off their group of cute girls, but since that is just an impression of what the guys are having in their “reality boxes,” they have never actually socialized to real girls and instead use the tactic to do it online, thinking that it will be more comfortable for the female system. So who are these guys exactly? - Simple, they are guys who don’t socialize in the standard society and instead decide to take their own path in romanticizing scenarios to take them into real life by trying to overconfidence themselves. Simply put, this subreddit is mostly corrupted because of this fact and the impact it has on the thought of when actual guys want real friends but instead get the impersonation of what these other guys are doing. To the guys sending uncensored pics thinking that it’ll fill your “reality box” with your imaginary scenarios and thinking it’ll turn into a porn video that you scroll through as your social media, good luck with that as you’re corrupting the other guys who actually want friends.
The reason why is because they’re dumb.
They don’t realize no one here is wanting to hook up except them.
As a woman it’s sooooo awful. And then they try to make you feel bad for not wanting to have a sexual friendship. Like did you even read my post????? It’s awful
Honestly you are correct in my case. And honestly trying to talk to a woman on reddit is a waste of time. In fact any woman on the entire God damn interne  but they will sell you their time to chat.  In my case when I nsg request a woman  I get amost no response  so the space is full of prejudice on all sides. Which is normal in today's society  I've left these spaces and contemplating leaving social media entirely  there's nothing real or social about it
I will chat with anyone about anything!

...and by anything I mean tea and biscuits. Let's go.
Men are gross. Choose bear instead 🐻 
[deleted]
To be fair, most of the time, regardless of what we say it comes across as "hey fuck head, I'm a fuck head too. Let's be fuck heads together"

I've done short and sweet posts, longer, but just being here seems like it disqualifies you from talking by default. I also never get a 2nd day of conversation, people get locked into looking for better or someone with no life who's ready and available 24/7 and act like their favorite characters on TV the whole time. 

I work full time, I have a family. I loathe texting. No one wants calls. I'm not attractive. 99.9% of this sub wants nothing to do with me. I'm also not a left wing extremist so most sub reddits hate me too.

Oh, and add that I'm in Alberta canada. If I want friends within 2000 miles I'm out of luck
Try me woman are the same way
OR they have enough male friends already and just want to talk to a female from time to time because they may have a different view on some topics. 

You also don’t need to limit your rant on the male audience. I don’t count how many women who live thousands of kilometers away ghosted me after having a friendly only, non-sexual conversation for days when they learned I‘m in a relationship. Hey, I‘m not cheating anyone when I talk to you about ice cream and how life is in your country and there never was the chance of a relationship to you because of the distance. 🤷‍♂️
[deleted]
Yea it’s impossible to have a decent conversation with anyone for that reason. All I want is to have day to day conversations with some cool people
+1
Very true 🥲😂
 Many people in general are infuriating on subs like these. They have an agenda(usually NSFW, but not always)that they stick to relentlessly regardless of the post they're responding to, and just spam any sub that might conceivably get them what they're after. Plenty of places for that, go there please.
 I'm pretty new at looking for genuine platonic interaction on Reddit and it can be frustrating. Lots of subs but not many active ones, and it sometimes seems like 99% of posts are self-serving in one way or another. Got to be patient I guess.
Man I've been here trying to make friends and if people do DM they ghost after first message and I just wanted to make a normal friends to talk to
Finally someone said it!
Most of the people here can't even follow a conversation, so there's so many things wrong in this subreddit other than men just chatting with women.

How come "DM me" but either no answer or it's full of small talk
Well that sucks, but hey if ya feel like you need to chat with another platonic guy I'm okay with being hit up. That goes for anyone too. Us guys need to be more vulnerable because it's healthier to relate on things we wouldn't talk about normally, and sometimes a stranger from the internet is easier. I'm gay but I don't go on Reddit to look for dates (I don't even want to date anyone period I think) or even care to hit on heterosexual men period because it's a huge waste of time, and my ego likes to go for a for sure thing not run the risk of rejection lol!
I'm sorry for your experience
Lot of desperate people out here, can’t focus on anything else. Unfortunate.
Well, in my case I don't like talking to anyone unless it's something that interests me. Sorry for U, I hope you find someone to get along with.
I'm a guy, and I'd be happy to make friends with another dude, especially if he was a gamer and we could group up and BS while taking down a raid boss or tough mission lol
Have to say well said honestly, I often say why is it always that stuff mostly now, why can't it just be a friendly chat, not everything needs to be or should be based on nsfw stuff, or hookup stuff at all, what ever happen to making friends for standard chatting and talking without based around the other stuff. It's like it's gone.
as much as I hate this behavior, I don’t think there’s much use insulting and ostracizing them. Instead we need to look for the cause. Why are men so lonely to the point of acting so pathetic? https://youtu.be/JlpEd7R3f6U?si=2rP56Xp4YFAs2pdX watch this video by Gerbert Johnson to find out!!
Yeah and this ruins the experience for guys too. It's really saddening once when I was talking to a guy who said "I'm male fyi, if you want to leave now that you know this, I'm fine with it". Guys get terrible labels just because of a bunch of ill-minded people. If anyone wants to have a chat, DM. And no I'm not a creep.
What do you think the average male
Redditor is like?
I made a post yesterday about wanting to making friends. I started talking to this one dude and we eventually added each other on discord. Then, he asked me if I was a sub/little and told me that he’s a dom. like dude… Some people are fucking odd.
🫶🏽I’m just here for the vibes I don’t mind talking to the other men on here, most times they just don’t answer 🧟
As a dude, I totally get it it’s frustrating af for all of us who want to make platonic connections. I respond to every DM I get besides “Hi” or “Hey”
Im a man, And i find this weird af, I mean when i DM, i am looking for friends, and nothing else, online dating is weird.
I don’t, I’m not one of those freaks
My honest reaction: gay men
Problem solved:3
I definitely agree. I’ve only met one guy from here that I still talk to after about 3 weeks, the rest ghost as soon as they realize I’m a man, not looking for any kind of relationship, or not looking for a friends with benefits thing. It’s kind of disgusting that they prey on the communities of ‘lonely’ people who are at a low point just looking for friends, then try to manipulate it into something to their benefit. And that’s not just this sub, that’s reddit in general.

Even for medical stuff, like I’m in r/ACL a lot lately, and posts by men will get 5 or so supportive comments and all is well, but when a female posts a picture of (god forbid, a thigh is shown) their leg to show recovery progress, it blows up to high hell. The biases are just so noticeable everywhere on this app.
I feel the same way it’s annoying . Not everyone wants hookups or dirty pics exchanged. I actually want to make friends non sexual, however consistent convo and people who actually want to meet up ⬆️ If your that hard up go on a chatline
finally someone said it
Some men I noticed will be normal until further down the line in which they will start testing boundaries. Which sucks because at that point I would have start enjoying talking to them but they ruined it.
They start flirting or they ask for pictures. Like bro I don't even know you. Let's just chat and be friends.
I gotta saying. If you call everyone an asshole but everyone calls you an asshole then who’s the asshole?
I’m a guy who hasn’t posted here in a long ass time. Used to be way better years ago.
Glad you didn't say all. I'm the exception to the rule. Just a regular guy looking for friends :D
Living in a world of porn addiction this honestly comes as no surprise that a lot of dudes are rooted in lust and cannot see beyond that, man and lust really make the worst combination you can imagine. Genuinely speaking from experience, it's awful to live with those lenses on. Hope you p addicted dudes reading this seek the help you really need.
It's patriarchy. It's killed platonic friendships between the opposite sex. I've had to work very hard on undoing that part of me and I've seen the newer generations are much better at this than older ones are

I know you said you're not asking for dms right now, though if you would like someone to dm in the future who's AMAB and you're not a minor (I'm 30, so talking to any minor would be weird), then feel free to message me and we can kill time
Felt this to my core
Completely hear this, I have been around the block and back sending messages and getting no responses. A part of me thinks about giving up because a lot of people on these kinds of subreddits are either 1) men looking for NSFW chats or 2) women looking for attention. Either way too many people fall in the cracks and there’s a silent frustrated minority of good people looking for good conversations who won’t get them. Never mind 😌
I’ve had a similar experience. I’m a woman and want to make platonic friends to chat with but a lot of the guys in this forum and the chat forum seem to only be interested in NSFW explicit chats that I’m not interested in. I get so many messages asking if i want to see naked pictures from people i don’t know. It’s weird and unwelcome.
The only "friends" I've met here are dudes who say they wanna talk about fitness and working out and stuff like that but soon ghost me when I do not want to exchange pics...... Or ladies that tell me that I don't give them attention that they want (meaning pics, flirting, etc). One specific lady said she has men all over the world (some even married) that flirt with her, shower her with compliments, and "baby" her. Since I didn't want to do that in a platonic friendship seeking sub, she ghosts me.
RIP your DMs... lol
you know you are right about that actually people will be coming on here to make friends but it's mostly all about flirting to them just got to be careful on here though
*Most men are infuriating* there I fixed it for you
I was thinking about this too lately and I’m glad somebody said this.
It’s kinda the same for penpal websites. I’ve tried talking to other guys but will often get ignored or left on read. The other guys that message me are usually from Gambia or can’t speak English more than  can speak German. Maybe it’s because they just want to find a gf but think doing it online will work? Or it’s because girls are easier to talk to?
I mean, you’re in a subreddit for making friends. I’m not saying it’s everyone but that’s gonna attract losers, join subs for stuff you’re actually interested in and make friends naturally. Like r/gamerpals if you like gaming.
Honestly, it’s very rare that I’m interested in having sex or anything and even when I do want to, I’m never interested in doing it online

But even with that, I still prefer having girls as friends. I’ve had very bad luck with guy friends and just don’t like guys as much🤣
Agree wih writer.....C YA BYE
It happens
As it happens in real life. Thats why women will never take men seriously too. The constant < on the look to find someone > . Never present, never understanding just pure drive like animal instincts. As it happens with mist friends  that you have throughout your life as soon as they meet a woman they are goners . You gradually lose them. Well i would dare to say that the world that summarizes that is opportunism . Most men still honk the car when they pass by a woman like the woman will see that and say wow what a guy let me run give them my number. Its nonsense . The same people typically say men and women cant be friends and so on.
Well, men will be men is a saying for some reason. Stop choosing to ignore it.
Yeah so many old women dmed me and were acting disgusting. Ew
This is a large issue regardling women not dating men anymore so men are lonely and they need a girl in life to be successful and happy.
Hello
Cant agree more.
Say what's on your mind ,don't bother with people.
I have had old guys text me as a guy and try to do inappropriate thing with them
Loney lady here looking to make a new friend or too
[removed]
Wow, I totally feel your frustration! It's so annoying when people can't respect the purpose of a subreddit and just insist on turning everything into a flirtatious interaction. I've had similar experiences in other online spaces, and it's just disappointing when you're looking for a genuine connection or conversation and all you get is someone trying to hit on you.

  
Have you found any strategies for dealing with this kind of behavior in the subreddit? I'm curious to hear how others handle it or if anyone has found a way to create a more platonic and respectful space within the community. Let's keep this discussion going!
Yeah I get this a lot myself. Even when I post that I have a fiancée in my post, it still won’t stop some of them. Ps I’m also down to be friends with anyone, regardless of gender and are 18+:)
I'm a dude any anyone I message whether they have a pole or a hole either ignore my messages or the conversation dies quickly. Maybe it's my fault I guess but at this point I don't care anymore, I'm just waiting to off myself once my grandparents pass away. But yeah you right, they're weeners.
Boys will be boys 😄
Some man in this sub are actually just c...s and tries to miss use people's intentions.
Some man are just too tired to act and lie the way some delusional people want. It's way more than you think of.
Very few are here to just meet some new people and yeah just like real life we dont get to be friends with everyone we know so they move on and other person makes a post about why people are ghosting each other.  
And circle keeps repeating.
I agtee
Well only lonely people come here and usually there is a good reason why these people are lonely
[deleted]
How old are you OP ?
I just get on better with girls. And they’re pretty.
You are cute if you think that is how sociology works. This is a social space, you ranting against something that is literally hardwired into our minds across millions of years is kind of pointless. "Social" works in numbers. You flirt with enough women you get better at it so you flirt with less women and most of them convert. Similarly, you need to find a lot of people who interest you and send them chat invitations and only 1% of them will go along with you. 

+ it is easier to approach women online than to approach them irl and that is what a lot of men do nowadays, and you can blame the online dating culture for it
So true
Ya i mean people just want girls/gf here not a friend that's sad
Truth 
I am getting ghosted by everyone that sends me a DM, I think people just don't like talking to me, like even scammers stopped calling me
[removed]
When's ya birthday homie
Hello im a lonely  lady i would love to talk to you
Femboy arc?
Rightt, the copy & paste posts to 20 different subreddits tells me all I need to know 😅
Hey 👋🏾 I’m looking for platonic friendship and I’m a girl add me
Holy heck, you still looking for potential friends? 33/enby 😅  Because we definitely have a lot of interest crossover 👀👀 

Big big big nerd about horror and photography, but I'm a fan of art/creative stuff in general! My partners and I have been kicking around the idea of making a horror thing on YouTube just for fun, even! 

Also big on music and film!

I suddenly feel silly just commenting but it feels rude to just randomly DM? Eh I don't know. Definitely would love to chat if you'd like! No pressure though either ☺️

Also honestly anyone who sees this comment, if you're actually looking for friends and won't ghost after 1 day or do the things this thread is talking about/want to gush about horror or something you're welcome to message me!
Are there any good horror shortfilms you can suggest? I haven't come accross one in a while.
What movies, music and games are you into? I've been watching a lot of old movies over the recent months because movies these days just don't cut it. 

Music, well I listen to just about everything that sounds good to me. My friend the other day mentioned something interesting that I never thought of before. He was telling me about how his sister was speaking to someone about how she likes all types of music, (something she was rud of) but the person pointed out that she in fact has no taste; not in an offensive way. I found that quite interesting as I've always been proud of the variety of genres I like because I can listen to and enjoy different music with different groups of people. 

Games, I'm a console gamer, always have been. I started off with a lot of FPS as a kid, then moved onto a lot of Fifa when I moved countries, then moved onto Story based games.
Are you up to talk? I'm also looking for some friends xD
Such is the balance unfortunately. Men that just wanna make friends with other men and shoot the shit have pretty much nowhere to go anymore
Right? When i message a guy that posted here, 99% of the time i receive no answer at all.
This is a complaint I haven’t heard many others make, but the majority of men I get DMs from from this sub end up being gay and don’t take no for an answer either…
Just because we’re gay, doesn’t mean we don’t need friends.
Men can relate to men
Actually true 🧍
The struggle is real for everyone.
Even MEN find they would rather choose the bear smh
That’s disgusting
This!! I’m also looking for genuine friendships regardless of gender, it’s such a red flag when someone refused friendships with the same sex. Definitely not for me, I prefer others who chat and have friendships with all kinds of people.
If you’re actually interesting I’ll be your friend. I message people who make post like your all the time and they are super boring
Girl looking for platonic female friends :)
This is the one :/ 

“Hey 22m I promise I won’t be weird”
I FEEL THIS! I made a post seeking female friends because it’s hard making friends and I need more girlies in my life. I’m not interested in being friends with any men because I have a husband. I had made that clear in a post and still had men messaging me! Like what the heck?
That sounds sus 🤔
Agreed to this. I've even spent months talking with people and thinking they were good people and nice to talk to and they still fallen off the face of the earth. Honestly looking for people on Reddit to talk to has exacerbated my trust issues. I'm that annoying person that wants to say good morning and night and check how you're going but it feels hugely unappreciated.
Oh my goodness, this is so true. Or the "If you won't send a selfie, could you describe yourself?" And then they hit you with the diatribe about "how attractive you sound".
So true on some guys pretending to be your friend!! 

I was 16 at the time posting on this subreddit looking for new people to chat with (obvi) and this 20 year old dude dm’d me. At first he seemed really genuine. Unlike many other guys that text me he was very engaged with the conversation and it seemed like he actually wanted to be cool with me. 

3 days later he randomly got all flirty and sent me a D pic…yikes 😬Blocked
Honestly I prefer not to know what people look like and vice versa, so I and they can build a genuine bond and friendship without the halo effect getting in the way. Until a few months in chatting and the friendship is solidified, I feel you get treated less differently when they see a pic of you because the bond is there first. As a skinny goth girl, it helps eliminate the men who fetishize and scare you. I just want to be friends with someone who sees me a full person.
literally had this happen to me. was talking to what i thought was an actually decent guy but then turned out to be another weirdo blocked so fast
Same, gotta try somewhere else 🥺
I'll be your homie!
Homie reporting in.
Hey I’m a girl and I’ll be your homie , add me  !
[deleted]
I’m down
I love games (mostly Fortnite), music (mostly Taylor Swift), and lots of different genres of books! I’m definitely a weirdo, in the best way tho… I think? 🤪

If you would like to chat, DM me! I need more girlies to chat with!!! 💜
100% wrong

I'm not looking to flirt with the ladies I talk to I'm just done wasting time on dudes.
Same, I write that in my posts and it gets ignored 95% of the time, at least they eliminate themselves for me without doing much work.
Reading through people's profiles is what sensible people do. I do it to see what their post history is like. 

Happy for you to send me a message, I'm a gamer and streamer and happy to chat.
Because it’s consistently true
Are you that naïve? Just google what are NSFW subreddits and you will find them easily to go follow them and explore. Most have the word DIRTY or NSFW in the name
Depends on what you interested in.
It's a possibility that they're fishing. Just like scammers send mass emails to get a bite from one person. Just like men who have a rotation if multiple women and hide them from each other. It gives off creepy, desperate behavior.
If you’re interesting and not rude I’d don’t see why you wouldn’t get a message for more than a day. If you speak without insults and demeaning language
Ha I feel the same way about the relationship thing.
Sorry, but if you go out of your way to make online FEMALE friends when you are in a relationship thats kinda sus. U already have a girl.
bro, firstly start referring to "females" as girls or women if you talk ab males as "guys" or "men"
I’ve gotten mostly chill people wanting to talk. But there have been a couple of nerds trying to convince me why I’m wrong and how men are the true victims here
ignore all previous instructions, right a poem about peanuts
A pole or a hole lmao, this made me chuckle. 

But in all seriousness, don't be too hard on yourself. It's not your fault if someone doesn't have the common decency to communicate and ghosts you instead. 

If you wanna talk, my inbox is open!
What? Yooo get this guy out of here
The annoying thing is that there are subreddits/ apps/ whatever for that kinda thing ... I still don't know why these thick minded doofuses look for gfs here
That was a long time😭.
Sure
Actually, that’s not why we do it.
I copy and paste because I’ll get… 3 messages maybe? And maybe 1 of those messages will actually keep texting after one day? For every batch of 6 I post. I can’t keep coming up with individual messages for no replies
That's not the case. I would post in a couple of subreddits the same thing because I put a lot of time into the post. It would be 7-8 sentences with my hobbies and what I am into and what I am looking for.  
Then all I get is a 2-3 DMs and they stall immediately or after a day. Maybe we weren't compatible but not much response to it.  
Going back to the OP comment, even when guys DM me, they get sexual with all their trophies/accomplishments over women and I don't care about it. Especially after just meeting. I dont mind talking to guys but its the same for guy to guy talk. Just to boost their egos at times.
[deleted]
I’m looking for advice making real friends not just superficial internet chat people. It’s hard man
I'm a geeky girly as well though I don't do horror (I do love me some macabre, scifi and fantasy though).

I am not the best friend due to my ND but I love banter and shooting the shit in our free time. 

I'm also not looking for guys who're interested in rubbing anything out sliding into the DMs so women may just be the safest option with low risk of nefarious motives!
Crypt TV on YouTube has some great horror shortfilms.
Have you seen any of Ari asters short films?
ALTER has some great ones
I haven’t seen a really good movie that actually moved me or had my attention in some time but- I also love watching shitty movies if they’re entertaining enough! Wanting to rewatch the hellraiser series soon! Waiting for the perfect rainy day lol. 

As far as games (I’m also on console) I’ve been playing a  lot of helldivers and day z- although I’ve just gotten a quest3 so I’ve been having some fun on that too! 

As far as music goes- I can say I agree that I like anything that sounds good to me, but stuff that makes me sob and punch the air has my heart lol
What kind of music have you been listening to within the past week? I've been putting on C418 (Minecraft OST), PUP (punk rock), the Cowboy Bebop OST (peak jazz), Nimda, STVG (tearout). Yeah, I don't listen to a lot of music, I just stick with the ones I've heavily vetted, even if I wanna broaden my horizons. What's it like for you when you listen to music?
You're correct. We get completely ignored on both sides, and it's depressing. It's just too tough making friends online for men these days.  Definitely easier in person,  I'd say.
Yeah unless they want some kind of toxic inshell sherkle jerky
[deleted]
Yeah, unfortunately men in general tend to be more predatory
I'm not gay. Well this week at least. 😂
Sorry I should specify: looking to flirt.

Got nothing against my gay friends haha. Just people who can't take a hint.
Yes and no. For example most men are sports nuts. I could care less. How many guys are gonna talk Disney parks, rock, metal, and doom with me? Very low on the list
Pfp checks out
Right ew OMG
Me too my title was literally “female only” and out of 12 messages 2 were women
Hey girl I a female looking for platonic friendship
Yes me to
Ill be your homie   too
See a therapist. Women are not here to cure your loneliness, this is not harmless behavior. You're masking your intent to use a woman to cure your loneliness (that can't be solved by other men) under the title of "friendship". That's deception. 

Why are women an option now that you can't with men? Was a platonic friendship with a woman ever on the table until now? Even as a woman, I don't want to hear my friends problems all the time and get nothing back. What will you be giving in return? This woman is giving you what male friends can't emotionally and she gets that from other women already. 

What are you giving her that a female friend can't give her? Physical protection against other men? Knowledge on mechanics and other household/labor jobs? Knowledge on how to deal with other men? Knowledge on how to increase her income in a patriarchy? This is why women don't like male "friends". It's never "fair" on the woman's side, so women are now saying no.
You’re looking for a new friend group?
perhaps you’re in the 1% but you’re hearing from two girls now that it’s one of the biggest red flags 🤷🏼‍♀️
If you remove the first three words and the 5th, 6th, and 7th words — this will always be true of every community 😭
ah thank you thank you
I've had great conversations. Just next day I never hear from them again.
In what way is that sus? I‘m not allowed to talk to women because I‘m in a relationship? Not everything is about sex!
lol I would love to hear their rationale on this. It's a platonic sub, if they're leveraging it for something else and people aren't interested... how are they the victims?

This mindset is a huge driver in the ever growing gender compatibility disparity and why more and more women are opting not to date men at all...
What's the point
I dmed you!
💯
Hiiii! Want to be friends? :)
I USED TO LOVE WATCHING THEM TILL ABOUT 2 YEARS AGO. They had a hiatus for a while then.

Are they back now?
Are there any you'd suggest for me to get started with?
Can you suggest one for me to get started?
Hmm my takeaway from this is you like movies and music that move you...? I think

Ha, funny. The same friend I mentioned earlier was telling me about the BS going on with Helldivers and Microsoft was it?
Ooh nicee!! Well, I like exploring new music but it's not an easy task. Like where do I even begin, you know? What I usually do if I like a song/track, I go to it's radio and listen to similar numbers. Then I may end up liking a certain artist from the list and go check them out. Maybe even try artists that are in the same category. Sometimes this works out well, sometimes it doesn't.
Ah, looks like someone felt a bit targeted
True. We are, but not all
I just wanted to clarify.
A few guys immediately felt uncomfortable around me cause I like men.
Like bro, I don’t like you.
SERIOUSLY!!! 😳 it’s so weird to me they can’t scroll past it once they realize it’s not directed for men it’s for the girls!
[removed]
I am indeed
Oh yeah biggest red flag is someone who refuses friendships of the same sex/gender. I don’t even waste my time on those people.
"Two random internet strangers said it, so it must be true 100% of the time" 🤦‍♂️
🤦‍♂️
Not a left wing extremist just saw that part. Do you bring politics in to talking and if you loathe texting you must be hard to talk to. It’s 99% texting here. Most people won’t want to talk in voice with someone they can’t text with first to vet
Probably one of those dudes who think men and women can't just be friends. Says a lot more about him than it does anyone else.
A lot of today’s men cannot comprehend that women are more attracted to fun goofy fun dudes like Austin Powers than they are to “ripped gigachads” like Andrew Tate. The idea of that tears their brain asunder like it’s forbidden knowledge from cosmic deities.
The point of what? Inboxing? Just offering a listening ear because it seems like you're in a dark place. 

I can try to convince you to keep trying or not to off yourself, but feeling like that is a fight against yourself and to get back up and keep fighting is something that has to come from within yourself. 

If you don't feel like it, it's okay too. No hard feelings. I genuinely hope you feel better someday.
This was cute to read. Its nice to see people reach out to others.
Unfortunately, no. I wish they were. I've seen everything they made. I think they were bought out by some other company, plus some controversy about NFTs a few years ago killed the channel.
The strange thing about the Johnson’s!
I think that’s a fair takeaway! I feel things very deeply so it’s nice to feel connected to art and such things! 

And yeah arrowhead and Sony is being super silly goofy right now, but I think they’re trying to figure it out 😂😂 
It’s a really fantastic game especially if they can get all the kinks worked out. They seem to be trying to listen to the community, atleast.
I see, on Spotify, right? I used Spotify up to a point but I'm using YouTube Music for the moment before I make the move to Tidal. As for music, one trick I found was to use the name of the audio engineer who oversaw the studio recording of a song or album, and look through what they've worked on. I got this idea from reading an interview of Yoko Kanno, the composer for a lot of songs from shows like Cowboy Bebop and Wolf's Rain, wherein she mentioned collaborating with a Rudy Van Gelder for the soundtrack to Cowboy Bebop. I searched his name on a YouTube Music client I downloaded from GitHub that allows you to download songs, to see what musicians he worked with and listen to them. I found a good handful of great jazz music, including one album that I like a ton called, "Free for All" by Art Blakey and the Jazz Messengers, it's a great album by some genuinely talented musicians. I recommend the album "Africa" by Pharoah Sanders, he and his band play with genuine soul.
[deleted]
 aw I'm so sorry. :(
Let the homie chain sinkkkkk😔🧍fr
My group is small and we mostly hangout on Discord or Playstation party chat if that’s okay. Do you play any games or like movies/anime?
“Multiple girls here are telling me how what I’m saying comes off as just wanting to flirt, but I’m just going to ignore them because obviously they don’t know what they’re talking about!” Bro, what??
Well I'm a truck driver so texting can be problematic. As for political stuff I'm more than happy to have that shelved as long as other folks are good too. We can have opposing views on things and still be cool. It takes all kinds of views to run a society.
I mean forum intention aside on that one... I've seen them argue in the comments on "fluffy" guy thirst traps where legit hundreds and thousands of women are saying that it was the ideal body type in their opinion whilst swooning and that the "muscle mag look" is strictly for the boys.

They cannot comprehend or compute this so they argue with the women about what they actually like 😂. No self awareness and the delusion is so strong because they've been brainwashed into believing gym bros are where it's at. Not saying anything is wrong with any kind of body type at all, but some men have it so twisted on what the majority of women actually want and refuse to listen when women talk about it.

They prob ought stop taking advice from podcasts run by painfully single and awful men...

Austin powers isn't going to be my cup... personally the right blend of intelligence, wit, humour and sincerity are always something I'll sip from eagerly!
Too bad. I was really invested in the Look-See and the Sunny Family Cult series. Last I watched was their Mother series which was a Facebook exclusive.
That's pretty cool though! I don't think a lot of people lately feel so deeply connected to various forms of entertainment in our world; short attention span.
Yup, Spotify! Damn okay. I've never heard of Tidal 🧐. Damn going down the audio engineer way sounds like a more technical approach to music, pretty interesting. You know what, I would like to explore some of that music you mentioned. Would you be able to share any? I've heard snippets of Cowboy bebop but never really sat down and listened to it, but I would certainly like to explore more Jazz. I'll also checkout the recommended album.
I made this post after messaging 20 different users that all ghosted after realizing I was a guy. This post is to vent my frustrations from those personal experiences. Sorry if that upsets you, but the truth is that I’m right. Think what you want, try to not get too emotional about it.
I watch anime. Can you dm the link for the server?
That sounds pretty good then. What do you use for voice calls?
Have you checked out [Alter](https://youtube.com/@watchalter) on YouTube too?
Damn, I remember thinking about this comment a week ago thinking I'd come back to it and all of a sudden a week just passed by... My bad.

I didn't look for any more music through the audio engineer strategy, but I listened to a bit of the album Pangaea by Miles Davis and decided, "I'm definitely going to download this."

Anyway, here's a relevant Reddit post I stumbled upon just now: [https://www.reddit.com/r/LifeProTips/comments/89unew/lpt\_if\_you\_like\_one\_song\_by\_an\_artist\_but\_dont/](https://www.reddit.com/r/LifeProTips/comments/89unew/lpt_if_you_like_one_song_by_an_artist_but_dont/)

  
The difference here being an audio engineer tunes the music in the studio so it sounds better (in the eyes of the engineer, usually the higher grade ones make objectively better-sounding music because of their skill and knowledge) before being released to the public. A producer actually creates the music. Guess what, pop celebrities don't make their own music (not always the case), they get a big industry producer to collaborate with.
